Dear Marilyn:

When I was young my father starred in a play entitled “Belbriggen Bay” that 
was written in Langley, BC.

The music was composed by Leonard Woods, who had studied composition with Jean 
Coulthard then at UBC.  Leonard was also my theory/harmony teacher.  The play 
was written by Leonard and a friend of his called Joan.  It was directed by my 
“theatre parents” Dorothy and Alec Goostry.

And in the early 1960’s it was a BIG DEAL.  CBC radio came out to record it, 
there were countless writes and re-writes, etc.

Because Leonard had access, via UBC, to a new project that CBC had just done in 
recording the different songs of different outports in Newfoundland, some big 
Toronto CBC producer talked of mounting the production in Toronto as proof that 
CBC lent itself to the cultural well being of the nation, etc.  Leonard did use 
the recordings as basis of the music he wrote.  

Anyway, I only vaguely remember the play, my sister, three years older, has 
better memories.

But I have always wanted to see the script and see if it is worth re-mounting.

Last summer, while visiting Alec and Dorothy (now in a home) they mentioned 
that Leonard was still alive (I would have thought he was long dead).  Anyway, 
I tracked him down and he had the full script, all the music and all the 
correspondence that flew back and forth with CBC and the local papers etc.  

He graciously allowed me to photocopy everything and I spent three days with 
him, going through his files (he’s not very organized - it was difficult to 
find everything), reading the script with him and going over the music.

Then I went back to Dorothy and Alec and went over the script with them.  It 
was wonderful to see the years fall away as they started to remember.

The script needs work, but I think it’s a charming piece of Canadiana and 
I’m looking to mount it again.  When Leonard looked at the music he thought 
it could use a re-write, so he’s been working on it for a while.  It’s 
actually been fun and interesting to collaborate with a man who is 90 and is SO 
dedicated to art (when I first went to visit him he was putting the finishing 
touches on his 7th book of poetry, and working on his 4th opera.  He also used 
to teach sculpture at the Vancouver School of Art - now Emily Carr School of 
Art - but he says he’s too weak to do it properly now.  However his sketches 
are beautiful).

So I thought it would be an interesting to introduce Terrace to this project by 
having the NWS do one of the songs.  I really like the round, and it’s very 
simple.  

I’ve sent the music along.  As it was written for high school students you 
can see it’s very easy, but I would like you to consider it for the spring 
show.  I’d be happy to introduce it.

I’ll also be fine if you don’t think you would like to include it.  Anyway, 
here it is.

See you Monday.
