THE LIBRETTO
(Director’s Copy)
Revision of the old libretto, 
June – July, 1962


BELBRIGGAN BAY

“How the boys and girls of the village brewed a pretty kettle of fish.”
 A LITTLE FOLK OPERA IN TWO ACTS
For Two Adults and a Group of Young People


Book by Joan Buckley and Leonard A. Woods.
Lyrics by Joan Buckley.
Music by Leonard A.Woods.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

Boys of Belbriggan Bay
Christopher Doyle  	Stocky redhead, awkward
Tom Castleton  	Eldest, serious
Jake Horner		Heavyset and outspoken
Jim Farnley		Cut up
Bill Bolton		wants to be a captain, open, enthusiastic
Larry Johnson		Cut up and a tease
Pat McGie		 same type as Maggie
Sam Tickle		Early teen-age chums
Ned Cartwright	
Jonah Greenfield
Julian Williams				
The Kelly Kid
Old Jonathan (adult role)			 Voice for Polly

Girls of Belbriggan Bay
Maggie McGie	
Theresa Donovan
Monica Donovan
Mary Moncton
Ruth Manly
Dorothea Featherstone
Lorna McBride
Jenny Cooper			
Chloe Patterson
Biddy McCroom (adult role)

Note: Do not mix descriptions and dialogues in a working script. Stage 
directions O.K. but offset. Unison (?) comments are almost impossible to give 
with any realism – note speeches are broken and given to characters.

BELBRIGGAN BAY

ACT 1.

The scene is laid on the dockside of the harbour of Belbriggan Bay, a little 
out port somewhere along the jagged and rocky coastline of Newfoundland. In the 
centre rear of the stage is a tall signpost with an arrow marked “The 
Village”, pointing to the left and backwards, and another arrow marked 
“Sheila’s Haven” pointing to the right and backwards.Over the arms of the 
signpost is draped an old fishing net, while at the bottom is an untidy 
collection of oil barrels, fishing traps, and a wheelbarrow. To the right is a 
large outcropping of rocks, between which and the signpost is the pathway to 
Sheila’s Haven – commonly designated as the “right” entrance or exit. 
On the extreme right of the stage are pileings denoting the edge of the dock. 
Exit to the “ocean” is made past these pileings and down into the right 
wings. On the extreme left of the stage is a large practical packing shed seen 
in three-quarter view. It is old, grey, and weather-beaten, and has a creaky 
swinging door, and also a well-worn sign tacked up on one side saying 
“Belbriggan Bay.” Between the shed and the signpost is the roadway to the 
village of Belbriggan, commonly designated as the “left” entrance or exit. 
Fishing tackle, cod-traps, and nets with buoys and weights attached are heaped 
up here and there; a rope windlass and several lobster pots add to the general 
fisherman’s clutter. Several large metal drums or barrels and packing cases 
make convenient seats for the action of the play. In lieu of a naturalistic 
backdrop depicting the village and neighbouring cliffs, a plain grey drop is 
used; upon which lights, appropriate to the changing degrees of weather and 
mood, may be shown.

The time of the play is “some time ago.”

When the scene opens, it is early morning: fog clothes the settlement – a 
gull cries eerily – a fog horn punctuates the silence. The stage is quite 
empty of people. The door of the packing shed is ajar, and from within comes 
scrapes, rattles, and ejaculations. Suddenly, the door is pushed wide open as 
Christopher Doyle emerges backwards, dragging a pile of tangled nets.

Christopher Doyle is a stocky, red-headed, blue-eyed boy of Irish extraction. 
He is a big, awkward lad, somewhat prone to quick fits of temper. He is wearing 
blue jeans, gumboots, a cap, and an old green Cardigan sweater.

Chris: (dragging the nets to centre stage, dumping them down and straightening 
up in irritation as he finds some of the strands entangled in the buttons of 
his sweater – muttering as he tries to disentangle the mess ‘Darn 
it…blame them anyway… can’t see where the end goes… Heck! can’t make 
head or tail of it.’ Dropping his hands in disgust and ejaculating loudly) 
Pickle me in salt for a dried herrin’: they’re tied to all points of the 
compass!

Tom Castleton: is one of the older boys. He is dark-haired and brown-eyed. He 
is serious and responsible – He is neatly and conservatively dressed, and 
wears dark blue trousers, black-rolled neck sweater with long sleeves, and a 
trim captains’ style cap, dark blue with a soft cloth peak pulled well down 
on his head.

Tom: (appearing from around the corner of the packing shed) Hello Chris! 
Whatsa’ matter? – air’s nigh blue around here.

Chris: (still tugging to free the nets from his sweater.) Arrh! It’s these 
darn nets: they’re all tangled up in my buttons.

Tom: (looking at his critically.) Unbutton them, then.

Chris: (growling) Clever, aren’t you.

Tom: Here, let me help. (they work at getting the nets free.)

Chris: (irritatedly pulling away) Quick! Here comes Jake Horner – don’t let 
him
	see us fumblin’ around like a couple of old women.

Jake Horner enters from the “village.” He is a smallish, well-set boy – 
dark and quite muscular. He is a bit “old-fashioned” – possibly through 
having been brought up by his grandfather. He is rather slow and deliberate in 
his movements. His dress is neat: black jersey and jacket, and dark green 
corduroys, with a round sailor’s hat on his head.

Jake: (in a saucy, jaunty manner) Hi fellers – whatcha busy knittin?

Chris: (crossly) Oh shut your big mouth, Jake Horner!

Tom: (to Jake) You’d better give us a hand, Jake, before he clobbers you.

They free the nets and dump them in a pile in front of the packing shed as 
Larry Johnson and Jim Farnley enter from the Village whispering and giggling to 
each other.

Larry Johnson and Jim Farnley are chums who are always seen “palling” 
around together. They are young, thin, lanky teen-agers. They are very 
mischievous. They are dressed alike: blue jeans, no hats, and spotted 
handkerchiefs around their necks.

Tom: Somethin’ seems to be ticklin’ you guys this mornin’- what’s the 
joke?

Larry: Oh nuthin’.

Jim: We just feel good! (they leap up on the (fish boxes) lobster pots, 
flapping their arms and crowing) Cock-a-doodle-doo! Cock-a-doodle-doo!

Enter Ned Cartwright, Sam Tickle, and Pat McGie  from the left entrance. They 
are all older boys, quite adult in stature and more mature than the others. 
They wear blue-jeans and pull-over sweaters.

Pat: What’s all the cackle?

Sam: Who’s laid an egg?

Ned: Are you kiddin’? Roosters don’t lay eggs!

Jim and Larry: Oh don’t they! – that’s all you know (They jump down from 
the lobster pots onto Ned, Sam, and Pat –butting, cuffing, and wrestling with 
them in great good humour – all of them hurtling on to the ground in a maze 
of struggling arms and legs.)

Chris: (grabbing up an end of the nets and whooping with joy) Come on Tom – 
Come on- now’s our chance – let’s bag these squid-o’.

Tom: (stretching out the net quickly with Chris and flopping it over the 
scramblers on the ground) Got em!

Two of the boys reach their hands  out of the net and grab Tom and Chris by the 
ankles, pulling them down on top of the heap.

Jake:  (Who alone is on his feet, puts his hands on his hips and doubles over 
with laughter.) Oh lordie! lordie, What a mess of eels!

Enter at the height of the confusion, Captain Jonathan and Bill Bolton from the 
road to the village. The Captain is poking along with his walking stick, while 
Bill is carrying his uncle’s suitcase in one hand and his black Gladstone bag 
in the other.

Captain Jonathan is an old retired sea captain, of medium height, grey-haired 
and with a Kruger fringe of whiskers around his face. He is a bit gaunt from 
his recent illness. He speaks with a broad west-country Devonshire accent, and 
has a characteristic lumbago limp. His garb consists of a dark blue seaman’s 
toque, a turtle-necked jersey in the neck of which is a knotted black silk 
handkerchief, a brown seaman’s slop over the jersey (a loose canvas shirt, in 
the sloppy Joe style.) His heavy duffle trousers are tucked into his high sea 
boots.

Bill Bolton Captain Jonathan’s nephew, is a tall, good-looking boy; quick and 
observant, amiable, and likable. He is neatly dressed – dark-brown trousers 
and a sweater with a yellow scarf tucked into the neck. He is bare-headed.

Jake: (spotting Jonathan and warning the boys) Jiggers – get up- get up quick!

Jonathan: (enter up R) (to Bill) Slow down a bit, Bill, mee rheumatiz is 
actin’ up a bit this marnin’.. (Straightening up suddenly as the scene 
before him strikes home) Well, for the Lard’s zoike! What’s all the 
commotion! (Brandishing his cane) What’s the doin’ of it – a ruinin’ of 
yer father’s good fish nets …. (Whacking right and left with his 
stick)…’ere,..git out of it!...git up… git up!

The boys scramble to their feet with many OO’s and ouches, and free 
themselves from the net.

Jonathan: Oi’ve never seen such goin’s on in all mee barn doys! Is this the 
woy to be a’ doin’ of yer chares while yer fathers is out fishin’ wi’ 
the ‘ome fleet?

The boys reply in haste with both altercation and accusation

Ned, Sam, and Pat:(Ned)  It was Jim (Sam) and Larry: (Pat)They started it. 

Jim: It was Ned and Sam and Pat.

Pat: They wuz larkin’ around on the lobster pots crowin’ like roosters.

Ned: You’d think they’d have grown up by this time.

Sam: They’re allus actin’ like kids.

Jim and Larry: (Aw Gee,) Can’t we have a bit of fun sometime?

Jonathan: Silence! No more of yer lip! Yer fathers work ‘ard to fee you young 
varmits- an’ ‘ere you are – playin’ around like a passel o’ silly 
goats – ye deserve to be pickled aloive…Tom Castleton.. yer’ the oldest.. 
ye ought to ‘ave more sense… ‘Ere, take charge a’ stretchin’ out that 
net mmediate..An’young Jake’Arner – bring out the mending gear. (Tom 
motions to the others to get busy, while Jake goes into the shed for the box of 
mending gear)..an’ then all o’ ye fall to an’ git that mendin’ done. 
Bring along mee stuff, Bill.. (Going over to the dockside on extreme right of 
stage.)

Bill: (anxiously) Do you think you ought to row over to Cupid’s Cove this 
morning?

Jonathan: Whoi ever not? Are you goin’ to start fussin’ over me naow? Farst 
it’s that old ‘oorman, Biddy, last year- nearly drove me out of mee moind, 
what wi’’er yarb tea an’’er everlastin’ swabbin’ o’ the decks- 
then its your mother, wi’’er ‘ot plasters an’’er everlastin’ cough 
drops – an’ naow ‘ere you’re on at me – ye seem to think oi’m 
nuthin’ but a done-up ole man.

Bill: (Hastily) No. I don’t uncle! –but the sea is  awful foggy.

Jonathan: (answering mechanically) Arrh! Oi can see zee through most any vog! 
(But having his attention caught by Bill’s observation, and looking out to 
sea), By gum Bill – yer right! – ‘tis turrible think – ‘twouldn’t 
zurprise me if the fleet ‘ad to stand aff Spiddle Point until she lifts… 
maybe till late arternoon.

Bill: That should give us time to get this batch of nets finished before they 
come in.

Jonathan: It would! (Turning to the boys) – If ye put yer backs into it – 
which Oi doubt! I ought to stay an’ zee as you do it, but oi’m 
‘ankerin’ to git’ ‘ome to zome peace an’ quiet. Zo! Voggy or no – 
‘ere oi go! Give me a ‘and down, will ye! (Bill helps him (gets suitcase) 
over the dockside.)

Jake, meanwhile, has come out of the shed with the box of mending gear, which 
he sets down, while the boys make a half-hearted effort to stretch out the nets.

Jonathan: (Calling up to Bill)… an’ Bill – ye can bring over mee parrot, 
mee hat, an’ mee cutlass (mee uniform) loiter the doy. (Going off)

Bill: (unwinding the mooring rope) Sure… alright, I’ll be over. (Coming on) 
(Throwing the rope down to Jonathan) Goodbye! See you later Uncle!

Boys: (Who have meanwhile pressed forwards to the edge of the dock) Goodbye 
Captain Jonathan!

Jim: (Mischievously, in a sing-song voice) See you la….ter..!

Larry: (Not too loudly) Not if we’re lucky!

Jonathan: (His voice coming up from the boat) What are ye standin’ thar 
gogglin’ far? Git to yer work, small fry!

Ned: “Small fry!”  general reaction

Sam: Who does he think he is!

Pat: (To Bill) What’s he mean by (want with) his “parrot, his “hat”, 
(his uniform), and his “cutlass”?

Jake: (Interjecting) Oh, don’t you know? – He never goes anywhere without 
his “things.”

Pat: Not even when he’s sick?

Bill: No sir! There he was, coughing his head off, but he wouldn’t leave the 
Cove ‘till They wuz safely stowed in the boat! – ma was nigh pestered to 
death with the swearin’ of that parrot- and when the parrot shut up, uncle 
started… grumble…grumble..grumble!

Sam: What did he have to grumble about? – Your ma looked after him pretty 
good, didn’t she?

Bill: Sure she did – that was just the trouble: he didn’t like being 
coddled! He says (Imitating Captain Jonathan’s voice) “Women...Women… 
Women! Never leave you alone!... Put on yer socks… Don’t put yer feet on 
the cold floor..Eat this, it’s good for you!” (In his own voice) And all 
this he says for nuthin’ but his bronachal tubes a bit stuffed. What a life!

Tom: Well, all’s well that ends well, but we’ve got to get to work- Deal 
out the stuff, Jake.

Jake: Okay, Tom, I was just goin’ to do it. (As he hands (throws) a shuttle 
to Sam) May I invite you to Mrs. McGillicuddy’s sewing circle?

Sam: It’s a pleasure, Mrs. O’Flannigan.

Ned: (As he is handed a shuttle) Likewise, Mrs. O’Flannigan.

Jake: (As he continues to distribute the mending shuttles and the balls of 
twine to the boys) Your thimble, lady… here’s your needle and thread… 
your scissors, mam.

The boys set-to and get the work on its way.

Tom: (Approvingly to the others) That’s right – we’d better get this job 
rollin’ before Captain Jonathan shows up again.

Chris: It’ud be nuthin’ new to hear him grouch- boy, is he ever 
cantankerous.

Jake: (apologetically) Well, he ain’t been right ever since his back was so 
bad last summer.

Bill: ‘Twarn’t his sore back that made him cranky, though.

Pat: What was it then?

Bill: It was that fuss he had with Biddy McCroom: you know, when she went over 
to look after him. He says she’s settin’ her cap for him, and he don’t 
want none of that.

Ned: (Knowingly) Oh, ho! So when he fell sick this time, he sent for you ma – 
is that it?

Bill: Sure was! ‘course ma couldn’t leave pa, so we had to go over to the 
Cove and bring him home.

Tom: (To the boys) You’d better lay off the gossip and mind your own 
business. Anybody see Julian Williams this mornin?

Pat: He’s comin’ later… gone to pasture the goats out on the cliffs.

Chris: (Disparagingly) (Calmly stated) Sounds like Julian… always roamin’ 
off by himself.. He’s nuts.

Enter Jonah Greenfield from the left (right). He is the town’s fat boy 
Although placid and genial, and always ready to forgive a slight, he is 
quick-witted and alert to the situations as they arise. He wears a jersey 
tucked into his trousers, displaying on top a pair of shabby braces, and on his 
head a toque with a tassel.

Tom: Oh there you are, butter-ball… I was just  beginnin’ to miss you.

Jonah: (puffing) Sorry fellers – couldn’t get here any sooner – ran all 
the way… better get to work, hey! (Picking a shuttle out of the basket and 
falling to work.)

Ned: (Stretching out from his humped-up position) Ow! My lumbago! (imitating 
Captain Jonathan).. What a revoltin’ chore… feels like I’ve been 
workin’ a couple of hours already.

Sam: You should grumble! We’ve all been at it just as long as you.

Jim: Shucks – we’ll never get it done at this rate.

Larry: ..wish it was dinner time.

Jonah: How about singin’ somethin?... That’ud make the time pass quicker.

Ned: (querously) Well, what’ll we sing?

Jonah: Why not a verse or two of “ Just a Song at Twilight” or “Darling I 
am…”

Boys: (Drowning him out with derision) (Ned, Sam, and Pat): Oh, not that old 
stuff! (Jim and Larry): We get enough of that at home.

Jonah: Well, you don’t have to so snortie about it. (Jake) Let’s have the 
“Never Give up” instead.

Boys: (Enthusiastically) That’s more like it! That’s it! Billy tops’l!.. 
Billy Tops’l!

The boys continue their net mending as they sing the “BALLAD OF BILLY 
TOPS’L”. The ballad may be sung with any suitable combination of voices: 
solo in part – two or more voices – full chorus; and with any combination 
of accompanying sounds such as humming and whistling. The effect must be to 
make it sound and look natural and unaffected.

THE BALLAD OF BILLY TOPS’L


1. Oh, Billy went down with his dog to the sea
For he and his dog were allus together,
And Billy said, “Skipper, my lad,” said he,
“The sky is grey and the wind is free,
Oh, I must get fish, and it looks to me
Like wunnerful fishin’ weather!”

Refrain:
            Oh, Billy, Billy, Billy, my boy,
                        He went for to fish in the ‘Never-Give-Up.’

2.   Now Skipper looked wise and his barkin’ was loud
      As Billy and he went coddin’ together,
      And Skipper sat for’ard while Billy ‘lowed
      That such a smart pal made him feel right proud.
      No other dog fished along with the crowd
      And made so light of the weather.

3.   When Billy and Skipper went sailin’ that day,
      (A trim little punt she was altogether)
      The wind it was light as they hauled away, 
      And steered for a point just outside the bay,
      But somethin’ went wrong then, and Billy cried, “Hey!
      How suddenly wet is the weather.”

4.   The dory turned over and all of the gear
The dog and the boy they fell in together,
Now Skipper was scared for his master dear,
And grabbed at his collar, which Billy thought queer,
For he could swim fine and he felt no fear,
In spite of the dirty weather.

5.  “Back, Skipper,” cried Billy, “And don’t you annoy,
      Or sure we will drown in the water together.”
      But neighbouring fishermen yelled, “Ahoy!
      Put your arms round his neck, and he’ll save you, boy.”
      He did that, and Skipper, he yelped for joy, (Chris)
      And brought him out of the weather.”

Oh Billy, Billy, Billy, my boy,
    He went for to fish in the ‘Never-Give-Up.’

During the singing of the song, the Irish twins, Theresa and Monica Donovan, 
enter from the left (right) and seat themselves on the wheelbarrow – left 
stage. Maggie McGie enters from the village, sees them, and trips over to sit 
beside them. They exchange whispered confidences and giggles while Maggie plays 
at tossing and catching a ball.

Theresa and Monica Donovan: are two dark-haired Irish colleens. They are 
dressed in convent-style uniform; dark blue or black, with matching stockings. 
They have led a very sheltered life and are hence, very demure and obedient, 
but also really quite sweet. They wear little religious amulets around their 
necks.

Maggie McGie: sister to Pat, is a lively little tow-headed girl, small for her 
age. She is very mischievous and quick witted. She wears a flamingo-red sweater 
of the cardigan type- out at the elbows, and usually buttoned up incorrectly.

Maggie: (at the conclusion of the song, throwing her ball at Chris) See if you 
can catch that any better than you can carry a tune!

Chris: (Ducking) What’s wrong with my singin’? – thought I did pretty 
good for so early in the mornin’.

Maggie: (Rising as though preparing to run) Good! You squawk like the banshee 
down in Sheila’s Haven.

Chris: (Coming over, catching her and mussing her hair) I do not, freckle face!

Maggie: (Struggling) Oh, Chris!

Chris: (Releasing her) You have no business here anyway; we’re supposed to be 
working.

Maggie:  You don’t own the dock!

Chris: (Returning to his work) You be careful, or I’ll tie you to that old 
mooring post down on Spiddle Point: then the crabs’ud nip your toes!

Theresa: (To Monica, horrified) Ooooh! then she’d look like Joan of Arc….

Monica:  … tied to the stake!

Enter Mary Moncton from the left, carrying a (mending bag and a) lunch pail for 
Jonah for the ‘levenses. She is an amiable, brown-haired girl – quite 
domestic, and old for her age. She wears a rather dark dress, full-skirted, and 
long-sleeved, over which is an apron. She keeps some darning in her apron 
pocket, which she takes out and works on now and then.

Mary: (Handing the lunch pail to Jonah) Here’s a snack your mother sent you, 
Jonah.

Jonah: Gee, thanks, Mary. I could eat a nanny-goat’s bunt this minute. (He 
takes the lid off the pail and begins to eat immediately.)

Tom: That’s the last we’ll see of him for a while.

Enter Dorothea Featherstone and Ruth Manly hand in hand from the left (right). 
They are kindred teenage spirits – much given to assiduous gossip, and the 
reading of True Romance and such-like fiction. Dorothea is a beautiful, 
romantic, brown-haired girl – a little plump in a pleasant feminine way. She 
wears an old green velveteen rain coat with a faded floral head scarf with a 
long fringe, worn on the back of the head to artfully display her dark curls. 
Ruth is a slender, graceful girl, wearing her hair in a boyish bob. She wears a 
plaid skirt and a pullover. They enter talking and giggling to each other- 
their confidences ending in a little shriek of laughter.

Sam: (To the boys) Shhh! Here come the love-lorn ladies!

Ned: I wonder what junk they’re reading now.

Dorothea: (To Ruth) … and he picked up the rose she dropped, and kissed it, 
and put it into his breast pocket.

Jim: (In falsetto voice) Did you ever hear of anything more romantic!

Ruth: (Moving over to right (left) stage with Dorothea) … Just don’t pay 
any attention to him, Dorothea – as if he knew anything about romance.

Ned: Huh! We all know enough about romance to see that the girls are always 
chasing after the boys.

Pat: Sure – and they never grow out of it – just look at old Biddy McCroom 
– pestering Captain Jonathan.

Mary: (Reprovingly) Now, now, boys – don’t be unfair- a man needs a woman 
to look after him when he’s sick.

Chris: He didn’t seem to think so.

Mary: I think it was very good of Biddy to give him so much time, and him so 
crusty with her – I don’t think it was a case of romance.

Sam, Ned, and Pat: That’s what you think! (Oh sure!)
 and Chris:  (Oh Ho!)

Enter Chloe Patterson, from the village. She is a smallish fair-haired girl, 
quite sweet and delicate, but with a surprising firmness of principle. She 
wears a print dress and an apron, in the pocket of which she carries some 
embroidery. She enters la-laing the melody of the witching song, “Roses, 
daisies,” etc.

Maggie: Here’s Chloe – let’s ask her opinion.

Chloe: About what, Maggie?

Maggie: The boys say Biddy was pestering Captain Jonathan…

Chris: (Rudely interrupting) We said she was out to “hook” him – and so 
she is!

Maggie: (Ignoring his remark) … and Mary says she was doing him a good turn…

Chloe: You mean when he had that attack of lumbago last year – well, the poor 
man could hardly stand up – naturally, someone had to look after him.

Maggie: (Triumphantly to the boys) There, you see – she’s on our side.

Chloe: (Putting a period to it, and going over to the wheelbarrow (boxes and 
sits on highest box) with Theresa and Monica) Now Maggie – don’t be 
dragging me into any of your squabbles.
Monica: No, Maggie – you shouldn’t be malicious.

Theresa: Malice is one of the seven deadly sins, you know. (Maggie puts her 
tongue out at them in reply to these remarks).

Enter Jenny Cooper and Lorna McBride from the village. Jenny is a red-haired 
girl, while Lorna has brown hair. They wear rather boyish clothes – skirts 
and pullovers. They are both rather older girls – high-spirited and bossy, 
and are at present enjoying their first infatuation with the opposite sex.

Jenny and Lorna: (calling from off-stage) Sam! Sam!

Sam: For Heaven’s sake (Oh gosh!) – where can I hide? (looking for a place) 
This’ull do. (He ducks behind a barrel)

Jenny: (Appearing) (to right of) Anybody here seen Sam?

Lorna: We want to ask him something.

Ned: (snappily) (Standing up) Lay off – you leave Sam alone – He don’t 
want no designin’ females askin’ him questions.

Jenny: (Looking around at the other girls) What’s eating him? – he nearly 
bit our heads off.

Maggie: He’s mad because they’re getting the worst of the argument.

Lorna and Jenny: (Eagerly) (Oh,) What argument?

Mary: Well, you see…

Chris: (Interrupting) What’s the good of asking them?

Jake: You’ll never get a fair answer out of them.

Jim: They’re layin’ their nets for Sam already.

Theresa and Monica: (Lifting up their heads as though anticipating mischief) 
Oooh!

Jenny: (Bridling) Oh, what a fib.

Lorna: (Sharply) Who told you that?

Jim (Roguishly) Ooo-oo-oh – didn’t we see you waiting for Sam outside the 
church door on Sunday?

Jenny and Lorna: (Flying at Jim and slapping him on each side of the face) We 
never did! We never did!

Jim: (Ducking and struggling to defend himself) Ouch! Ouch!
Theresa and Monica: (Who have risen from their seats with nervous apprehension, 
jump up and down exclaiming) Oh dear… don’t fight…don’t fight.

Lorna: (To Jim) We hate boys! – ‘specially you.

Jenny: (To Jim) We wouldn’t look at Sam – the big fishy smelling 
jackanapes! (Lorna) So there!

Sam: (Popping up from behind the barrel and exploding) Is that so! Well just 
let me tell you young ladies – I wouldn’t look at either of you!

Boys: (Getting up from their mending)(Jim): Ha!(Ned): Ha! Ha! There you see! 
(Pat)He wouldn’t look at you either!

Jenny: (Surprised and astounded at Sam’s sudden appearance on the scene) Oh, 
you meanie!

Lorna: You big sneak, Sam Tickle! (Slaps Sam, who tries to defend himself, 
Lorna and Jenny scream and retreat, and knock over twins)

Theresa and Monica: (Bursting into a storm of tears) Oh dear, what would Sister 
Angelica say!

Girls: (Accusatively to the boys) (Jenny) There! See what you’ve done. 
(Lorna) made them cry.

Chris: Och- they’re nuthin’ but cry babies.

Boys: (To the girls) You’re allus comin’ down here and gettin’ in our 
hair.

Ned: Let’s move our stuff into the packin’ shed.


Tom: Yes, let’s blow – we’ve got to get these nets mended some how. (Come 
on, (To Sam) (Casanova).

The boys drag their work into the packing shed and shut the door after them 
with an impressive bang.

Lorna: (Looking back at the slammed door), (moves down right) and I say, good 
riddance to them!

Jenny: (To Lorna) Boys always think they’re so smart- that Jim… (Turns to 
go to Lorna)

Mary: (Interrupting) Enough of that – calm down girls! (To the Irish twins) 
Cheer up – ‘twas only a storm in a tea-cup.

Chloe: (To Theresa and Monica) The boys have gone now – here’s my hankie 
– dry your eyes.

 Theresa: (Tearfully) Sister Angelica says…..

Monica: … little birds in their nest should agree.

Maggie: (Impatiently) Well you’re not in school now, so what Sister Angelica 
says doesn’t count.

Mary: (To all the girls) I think it would be nice if we all sat down and did 
something quiet to calm our nerves. (Drawing out her darning and sitting down 
to work). (Gives out mending from basket. Twins wind hanks of yarn and others 
take work from Mary)

The twins sit down together, holding each other’s hands and sniffling as 
though they hadn’t quite finished crying; Chloe takes out her embroidery; 
Ruth and Dorothea sit together and continue whispering to each other.

Maggie: (Sitting down and idly coiling some rope around a stick) I don’t much 
care for sitting still, but I guess I’ll try.

Jenny: (To Lorna) I’ll bet my hair looks a mess.

Lorna: Sit down and I’ll do it for you.

Chloe: (Searching her pockets for thread) Oh dear, I have no more green for the 
leaves.

Maggie: Make them some other colour, then.

Mary: Oh, Maggie – what’s the colour of leaves?

Maggie: All sorts of colours – brown, or yellow – or red in the autumn.

Theresa: (Who, along with Monica has been cheering up) The leaves on the altar 
cloth in the chapel are always green.

Monica: Even in the autumn!

Mary: What are you making, Chloe?

Chloe: How funny Theresa and Monica should have said that about the altar cloth 
– this is a border for the new one (Showing it to them) to go in the chapel.

Ruth: It seems a pity to throw the old one away.

Dorothea: It’s seen so many marriages.

Lorna: I wonder who’ll be the first to be married in front of this one?

Jenny: Oh you never know – maybe some old maid

Maggie: (Bursting into laughter) Maybe it’ll be Biddy. (general laughter)

Lorna: Biddy! Don’t be silly.

Jenny: (Frivolously) Who’d marry that old crosspatch?

Chloe: Oh she isn’t such a crosspatch – just think of all the good she does 
– there hasn’t been a baby born in the village for ever so long that she 
hasn’t helped with… and she’s always ready to nurse sick people.

Mary: Yes, she is a good old thing – she may be a bit cross now and then, but 
she’s had her troubles; she was crossed in love, you know.

Lorna (Jenny): Oh, we all know that! – she was setting her cap for Captain 
Jonathan.

Dorothea: … and he spurned her!

Mary: (Sternly) Oh, no.  What I’m talking about happened long ago – when 
she was young.

Jenny (Lorna): (Laughs) Imagine Biddy ever being young!

Chloe: I don’t think I ever heard anything about that – tell us, Mary.

Mary: Well, you’ve heard about the pirates who used to anchor in Sheila’s 
Haven.

Dorothea: Oh yes- they carried off my grandmother, you know.

Lorna (Jenny): Oh, bother your grandmother! – Can’t you forget your 
grandmother for once? (An awkward pause, during which Dorothea glares at Lorna 
(Jenny) in no pleasant manner.)

Girls: Go on, Mary.

(Maggie: Yes, go on.)

Mary: Well, Biddy fell in love with the pirate captain – then he was captured 
by the privateers who hanged him in the Haven.

Ruth and Dorothea: (Ruth) Hanged! (Dorothea) Ooooh! It gives us the shivers to 
think of it!

Mary: Yes, hanged! And it was such a shock to Biddy, she has been a little 
strange ever since.

Jenny: (Aside) (To Lorna) Is that what you call it – I’d say “peculiar.”

Chloe: But she’s ever so clever, you know. Anyone who wants a spell or a love 
charm, goes to her.

 Lorna: Well, if she’s so good with the charms – why hasn’t she caught 
Captain Jonathan before now?

Ruth: Maybe she used them the wrong way round – and cancelled out the magic.

Jenny: (Aside) … or maybe Jonathan’s just too hard to get!

Chloe: Oh what a shame they couldn’t get along together, the poor lonely old 
things!

Maggie: Poor old Captain Jonathan way out in his cabin at Cupid’s Cove.

Chloe: … doing his housework!

Maggie: While poor old Biddy twiddles her thumbs in that creepy old Haven.

During this conversation, the twins have been looking from one speaker to 
another, like watchers at a tennis match.

Mary: Yes, it certainly is a pity they can’t get along; they’d be so 
comfortable together!

Maggie: I know! Let us do a charm for them right now – (all chorus) 
wouldn’t it be wonderful if we could get them wedded!

Girls: What an idea! Maggie, what a good idea! (Getting up) (Leader of dance 
group) That’s what we’ll do.




ENCHANTMENTS: A WITCHING SONG

              1.    Roses, daisies, mignonette;
   I haven’t found a sweetheart yet.
  What shall I do for lover true?
   Put a four-leafed clover in my shoe.
	
	
            Refrain:  Deep in the woods the ivies twine,
                           Where is the man who’s goin’ to be mine?


            2     Blue for lovers, brides wear white;
       Look for a snail on a moonlight night,
      Where e’er his feet of silver go –
      See the star-bright name of my true beau.

3.    Cocklebur and thistle blue
       Will show me if my sweetheart’s true,
       Come, tell me daisy, tell me dear,
       Shall I find a black-eyed lover this year?

4. Nine steps back and search the dust;
Where is the man that a girl can trust?
Tie me a knot and pray the moon,
Send a handsome lover to woo me soon.

Weave him a spell, and what’s amiss
With asking him straight for a hug and a kiss?

Dance  (Scene ends at end of dance)

The girls all stand, breaking into groups, spreading their arms as though 
dressing for distance in order to have room for weaving their magic spells, 
while the stage lights dim to suggest the magic rite. The girls step and draw 
necromantic circles and squares on the ground, singly or in groups. During the 
short dance they join in a “Circle Dance” which is symbolic of the wedding 
ring, while during the fourth verse they break circle, two of the girls holding 
their hands up while the others pass under, as in the old game, “Farmers in 
the Dell,” or “London Bridge.” They raise and lower their arms to catch 
some of the girls. This is symbolic of the marriage bower and of the 
“catch.” The lights go up.

Maggie: (As the song comes to its close) You’re the last one (one that’s) 
caught, Chloe.

Lorna: So you’ll be married next!

Chloe: Oh, no! we were doing it for Biddy and Jonathan; besides, I’m too 
young, I’m only fourteen(thirteen)!

Dorothea: My grandmother was only fourteen (thirteen) when…

Jenny, Lorna, and Maggie: Oh, don’t start on her agin, (Maggie to all) for 
Heaven’s sake.

Julian Williams: bursts onto the scene from the right (left) entrance. He is an 
excitable boy, imaginative, with black hair and brown eyes popping with 
excitement. He wears a striped jersey under his slicker. A long knitted scarf 
is bundled around his neck in an untidy fashion.

Julian: (Puffing) Where’s everybody?

Maggie: What do you mean “everybody” – we’re here.

Julian: Girls don’t count – I mean the fellers – I want to see Tom quick!

Jenny: He’s in there with the others. (Indicating the packing shed with her 
thumb.)

Lorna: We couldn’t bear the sight of them any longer!

Julian: Tom… Hey, Tom.

Tom: (From within) What’s the matter out there? (Appearing at the door) Oh, 
it’s you, Julian – come on in, your work’s waitin’.

Julian: Well, it can wait! Come on out here into the light where I can see you 
– I’ve got something simply fan-tas-tic to tell you. (The boys crowd out of 
the door and group in front of the shed) You’d never guess (believe) what 
I’ve seen this morning.

(Bill: What’s up?) (Chris: Gee whiz!)

Ned: Well tell us and see.

Tom: Come on, give!

Julian: Shelia’s Haven- (yeah? - From Tom) is full of boats!

Boys and Girls: (Incredulously) Sheila’s Haven full of boats! {(Pat) What do 
you know! (Maggie
Wow! (Others) Can’t be! Oh, no! Never been before!}

Julian: See, I told you – I said you wouldn’t believe me.

Jake: Sheila’s Haven full of boats! – no wonder!

Mary: You must have been imagining things, Julian.

Bill: There’s never any boats down there.

Chloe: (In awe) Everybody’s scared to go down there.

Jonah: ‘cept Biddy McCroom; she lives there.

Julian: That’s right – ask Biddy! I saw her comin’ up – she’ll be 
here any minute… I ran on ahead.

Pat:  .. but you can’t believe anything she says – she’s always makin’ 
up stories.

Tom: And it’s a pretty foggy mornin’, so you might have been mistaken.

Julian: No I am not! I could see the riggin’s through the mist – and I 
could hear voices shoutin’, too.

Tom: Sounds pretty far-fetched to me.

Biddy McCroom: appears on the scene from the path leading to Sheila’s Haven. 
She is an elderly woman of Irish extraction, apple cheeked, and with wild black 
hair flecked with grey escaping from under her fringed Connemara shawl. She 
carries a basket covered with white cloth on her left arm. As she enters, she 
catches Julian’s last words and interjects…

Biddy: Aye, sure and that you have, mee bully bye – and big ones, too.

Julian: Ah! Here’s Biddy now. Just ask her, she’ll back me up.

Biddy: Sure and what is it yer after wantin’ me to say?

Julian: They won’t believe I saw Sheila’s Haven full of boats this 
mornin’, you must have seen them too, didn’t you?

Biddy: Why, bye, dear, I do often be seein’ boats in Sheila’s Haven – and 
I do be hearin’ voices too. (Setting down her basket), but nobody’s after 
believin’ what Biddy says.

Tom: You’d better go back, Julian, and have another look.

Julian: Oh, you go, Tom –my legs are just about wore down to the knees- 
besides, it was awful spooky.

Tom: Well I can’t go –(as if the suggestion is out of the question)– 
I’ve got to see to the work – who else’ll go? (Looking around at the 
boys, who look at each other hesitatingly – but none of them volunteering)

Jim: (finally stammering nervously) I’ll go if Larry can go with me.

Tom: No siree; we can’t spare more than one.

Maggie: (Jumping up and down) Let me go, Tom, let me go! I’m not scared. 
(Looking proudly around the circle)

Chris: (With injured dignity) ‘taint fittin’ for a girl – I’ll go if 
everybody else is chicken (scared).

Tom: Okay, Chris – hurry back and let us know what’s cookin’.

Exit Chris, gathering up his hat (and coat) and running off right (left).

Julian: (To Biddy) They think I’m talking through my hat, but we know better, 
don’t we?

Biddy: Sure an’ we do, boy, and it’s no wonder ye though there was 
somethin’ doin’ down there, for they were a’ singin’ and a shoutin’ 
all the night long:  It’s a noisy crew, them pirates be!

Boys and Girls: Pirates? Pirates?

Maggie: Did you say “Pirates”, Biddy?

Biddy: Sure and begob, ‘twas “pirates” I said.

Tom: Why, Biddy, there haven’t been pirates down there for years and years.

Lorna: And they’re all gone now anyway.

Jenny: That’s for sure.

Biddy: Sure an’ they’re niver gone for long, mee gells, in spite of yer 
unbelievin’ words. Ah! (Entranced) I mind the time when they would be 
comin’ off their ships, bringin’ all manner o’ things they did be 
collectin’ on the high seas: combs, an’ lookin’ glasses, an’ golden 
earrings, for to tempt away the gells from their fisher sweethearts.

Dorothea: There, you see! What I did tell you about my grandmother!

Biddy: (Taking no notice of the interruption) An’ I was one of those 
moon-enchanted colleens – Ah! ‘tis beautiful I was wi mee raven hair down 
to mee waist. There was none could hauld a candle to me, the capt’n did be 
sayin… Ah! What a divil of a man was the captain!... an’ its often I’m 
hearin’ his men a’ chantin’ their infernal songs, and a’ dancin’ on 
the decks, drunk as owls every whan of thim, an’ their parrot into the 
bargain, a’ screechin’ an’ a’ cursin’ in the hathen pirate lingo!

Bill: You don’t have to be pirate to have a parrot; my uncle Jonathan has one 
– and it can talk, too.

Maggie: Sure it can talk, but not much – all it can say is “Git away, 
Biddy,” – I’ve heard her and I know who taught her to say that.

Jenny and Lorna: Who did?

Maggie: (Laughing) Why, Captain Jonathan, himself.

Biddy: (Turning on Maggie) Hauld your tongue, ye meddlin’ little witch! I’m 
wantin’ to be hearin’ nuthin’ of that oncivil auld man.

Jake: Why did the pirates go to the Haven in the first place, Biddy?

Ruth: (Butting in) For women, of course; she’s just been telling you.

Dorothea: They always came looking for women.

Biddy: Not always! Sometimes they did be bringin’ thim; an’ it certainly 
was a woman at the bottom of the business that first brought thim to Shayla’s 
Haven… an’ don’t ye be thinkin’ she was the ordinary sart o’ woman 
– a great princess of auld Ireland itself, she was!

Girls: (Chloe) A princess, Biddy! (Mary)- tell us about her.

Boys: (Bill?)Gosh, no! Tell us about the pirates. 

Biddy: Sure an’ you can’t be tellin’ about the one without the ither

Boys and Girls: (Chloe:) Tell us the whole story then. (Yes-yes- do- Sure. from 
crowd)

Biddy: Well, since ye have a fancy to be hearin’ it – draw yerselves around 
togither. (She sits down upon an upturned box).
Tom: (In a resigned voice to the boys) I can see you have no more ambition for 
the job, so we might as well all sit down and listen until Chris comes back. 
(Ned, Pat, and Sam get a couple of fish boxes from the shed)

The boys and girls draw up boxes and traps to use as seats – bumping into 
each other and being a bit disorderly.

Jenny: Do I hear anybody offering me a seat?

Lorna: No, you don’t.

Ruth: Boys aren’t chivalrous anymore.

Boys: (Sam) Oh, go on. (Pat) Find your own seats.

Girls: (Pushing the boys and grabbing seats), (Seat fight) Move over… I want 
this one.

Boys: (Adding to the hubbub) Hey! Stop pushing… Quit shoving! (Music)

Biddy: (Rising with wrath) Will ye be givin’ me an end of yer tongue waggin? 
(Glaring at the boys in particular).

Boys: (Giving way under her wrath) (Sam and Pat) Oh well- for the sake of peace 
and quiet (To the girls) Sit down.   (Sung)

Jenny, Lorna, Ruth, and Dorothea: (Assuming their seats) Thank you, Thank you, 
Thank you so much.

Girls: (In sweet triumph) Thank you, dear boys.

Theresa and Monica: (Innocently) We think we are ready now.

Biddy: Well thin, open yer ears to what I will be sayin’ (Resuming her seat).

THE BALLAD OF THE IRISH PRINCESS


1. There was a young queen of Ballyvorneen,
Died when her babe was small,
And Sheilah the child she grew up to be wild,
With niver a mither at all.
She’d leap and she’d run like a boy in the sun,
And swim like a fish of the sea.
The warriors tall in her father’s hall
Were hardly more bold than she.

                    Refrain:
                          Keening alone on the cold keening stone,
                          Keening so mournful by Newfoundland’s shore.


2. Now when the colleen was sweet seventeen,
Her father bespoke her fair.
He said that indeed she must sew and read
And bend her to wifely care.
Now the maiden’s two aunts who did well in France
Were said to be pious and wise,
And there she should turn her in order to learn
To shine in a husband’s eyes.



                     3.    So away to sea in a ship went she,
  A-glitter with silks and gold.
  But alack, they were seen on the ocean green,
  And seized by a pirate bold. 
  The pirate’s heart it was smitten apart
  With love for the princess slim,
  But she turned him away, and she wouldn’t say
  One kindly word to him.



   4.   And the captain sware with a frowning air
   As they touched on the rocky shore,
  That unless she would be his own fair laydee
  She’d see her old home no more.
  Alone but proud the sad princess vowed
  That she’d be no pirate’s wife.
She’ never put shame on her father’s name,
Not even to save her life.


    5.   So he shut her alone in a keep of stone
    With its base in the sounding sea.
    And though she was fair, yet he left her there,
    And sailed to his own countree.
    ‘Tis told to this day that she floated away
    On a funeral iceberg slow.
    And the seagulls they cried as they watched her glide
    Into the mist and snow.

Ruth: What a romantic tale!

Dorothea: And so sad; I’ve just been weeping buckets.

Chloe: Did the Irish princess really float away on the iceberg, Biddy?

 Ned: (Disgustedly) That’s just poetry – an old wive’s tale!

Sam: Who ever heard of icebergs floatin’ in and out agin that way?

Pat:  ‘specially with coffins on ‘em.

Biddy: (Crossly) The divil burn yer unbelievin’ bones – is it laughin’ at 
mee story ye are?

Julian: (To the boys) That’s nice thanks to give Biddy for her trouble! How 
come you think you know everything? – It could have been true in those days.

Tom: That’s may be, but there’s nothing in the Haven for pirates nowadays.

 Biddy: Ah! ‘tis a little ye know, Tom – they do be knowin’ the Haven 
well. ‘Tis a refuge… ‘tis a hidin’ place they’re after usin’ often.

Bill: (His curiosity stimulated) What do you mean ‘often’ – Do you mean 
now?

Kelly Kid: (Calling from a distance) Tom… Tom.

Maggie: That sounds like one of the Kelly kids.

Kelly Kid: (Arriving on the scene from the village – out of breath) Oh here 
you are, Biddy. Me mither’s took bad an’ is needin’ ye quick… I wuz 
jist goin’ to ask Tom to go wid me to the Haven to find ye.

Biddy: Whist bye – run back to yer mither and tell her I’m comin’ 
immediate. (She gathers up her basket and gets up to go).

Kelly Kid: Right ye are Biddy. (He exits left, running).

Bill: Wait a minute – tell us first what you meant about the pirates.

Biddy: Ach, ye ask too many questions, I can’t be sittin’ (stayin’) here 
the whole of the day tellin’ ye tales while Mrs. Kelly’s a’ waitin’ wid 
her time upon her: I should a’ bin gone a’ ready. (She leaves for the 
village in an abrupt manner).

(Mary: Goodbye! Twins wave)

Pat: I’ve heard her tell some queer stories, but this of the “hidin’ 
place” is about the queerest of the lot!

Chloe: Oh, I wish Chris would hurry back from that horrid place – who knows 
what dreadful things may be happening.
Bill: He’ll be alright – you’ll see. Don’t be frightened by Biddy’s 
tales.

Jonah: There might be some truth in her story about the princess, though.

Jake: Sure hangs together pretty good, because there are some ruins on the 
island in the middle of the Haven; I’ve seen them.

Chloe: I can’t help it, Bill, but I’m awful worried about Chris.

Bill: Don’t fret Chloe – I’ll go see. (He dashes off right (left) just as 
Chris comes running in – they collide and knock each other down)

Chris: (Angrily) Why don’t you watch where yer goin’ eh?

Bill: I was just comin’ to get you.

Boys (Tom): (Crowding around Chris) What did you see? Is there really something 
down there?

Chloe: Is there any danger?

Sam: I’ll bet you’ve been on a wild goose chase, Chris.

Chris: (Flopping down on a box and still puffing) Not on your tintacks! You’d 
be surprised – there really are boats in the old Haven – must be a hundred 
of ‘em.

Jake: Great gallopin’ seahorses! Is that right?

Boys and Girls: (Mary) I can hardly believe it. (Jim) Did you count’em? 
(Maggie) How close did you get? (Larry) Do they know you saw them? (Jake) Were 
they anchored?

Tom: Are you sure?

Chris: Sure as I’m sittin’ (standin’) here.

Julian: See, didn’t I tell you!

Bill: Maybe it is pirates after all!

Boys (Tom): Sounds like it, (or something)

Theresa: (Trembling) Oh, we think we’d better go home.

Monica: It sounds dangerous.

Theresa and Monica: Who’ll go with us?

Maggie: Oh go home alone if you’re going, but don’t badger us to go with 
you; it’s just getting exciting.

Theresa and Monica:  (Theresa) Oh! (Monica) We couldn’t go home alone! 

Chloe: Well, stay here.

Mary: We’ll look after you – it probably isn’t pirates anyway.

Larry: Who else could it be but pirates?

Jim: Who else would know the way in?

Jake: It sure enough must be pirates!

The boys all stare at each other in dumb amazement at the idea of there being 
pirates in the Haven.

Maggie: (Jumping up and down) Goody! Goody! What fun! What are you boys goin’ 
to do about it?

Boys: (Still dumbfounded and caught off guard) Well…well…

Bill: (Filling in the gap) You just wait and see – we’ll fix ‘em.

Julian: I think we should get them out of there.

Jonah: What do you mean, “Get them out of there?” we ought to keep ‘em in 
there – we don’t want ‘em snoopin’ round here in Belbriggan Bay.

Jake: That’s right, fellers… Hey, I’ve got an idea – let’s bottle 
‘em up there!

Boys: Good idea!... but how?

Tom: Yes, Jake, it’s all very well to talk so big, but how are you going to 
do it? That’s the question.

Jake: Who’s talkin’ big? – it’s simple, we’ll just haul up the old 
chain across the mouth of the Haven!

Pat: What old chain?

Ned: I’ve never seen no chain there.

Jake: Of course you haven’t seen it – it’s on the bottom under the water, 
stupid!

Tom: What’s all this about, Jake?

Jake: Well, my grandfather says that when the French ships used to prowl around 
the coast, our men fixed up big chain from Spiddle Point to Brandy… like 
this…. (Using the stage props to represent the geographical locations). 
Here’s the Haven… Spiddle Point… Brandy Head.. clean across the mouth of 
the Haven. Then when the enemy hove in sight, they’d winch her up tight as a 
hawser, and then our boats were safe inside.

Sam: What do you mean “our boats”… I thought it was an old pirate den.

Jonah: Well, not all the time – everybody used it for safety; the Frenchies 
(against the Frenchmen) (privateers) were a common enemy.

Chris: (Looking exasperatedly at Sam and Jonah for this interruption) Go on 
Jake, you mean to say the winch is still there.

Jake: Sure it is- you ought to know – it’s that iron post down on the rocks 
below Spiddle Point – the one you’re going to tie Maggie to.

Maggie: If he can.

Jake: (Continuing) Old man Kelly ties his dory to it; you all must have seen it.

Sam: Sure we’ve all seen the post – but where’s the chain?

Jake: (Irritated) Ahh! – I’ve already told you – it’s attached to the 
post under the water.

Bill: How are we goin’ to lift it, though?

Ned: Do you think the winch will still work?

Jake: Don’t see why not; it may be a mite rusty and take quite a pull to get 
her started but we’ll fix in a long bar so we can all heave.

Bill: Let’s give it a fling then – How about it, Tom?

Tom: Sounds like a hare-brained scheme to me, but I guess we could give it a 
try.

Maggie: We’d better hurry – they might be on their way out already.

Pat: Listen to Maggie (you)! What does she (do you) mean by we?

Sam: This ain’t goin’ to be no picnic party for girls.

Ned: I should say not, we don’t want you runnin’ into danger.

Sam: (Looking at Jenny and Lorna) We aim to protect our women!

Jenny and Lorna: (Snorting) We can look after ourselves, thank you!

Maggie: Can’t I go Tom? – please, please.

Tom: No Maggie – you’ll have to stay here and hold the fort.

Mary: Yes, Maggie, this the best place for us.

Maggie: Oh, heck!

Tom: (To the boys) Well, if we’re goin’ to raise that chain, we’d better 
get crackin’ – Somebody hunt up a bar to turn this winch with.

Bill: I know… I know… (He dashes into the tool shed and reappears with a 
long metal bar). Will this do, Tom?

 Tom: (Taking it from him) Just the ticket.

Maggie: What are you goin’ to do with them, when you’ve got them bottled up?

Bill: (Boastfully) Why, we’ll board ‘em and fight it out, of course.

Jenny: (Sarcastically) Oh, how brave of you!

Lorna: Do you boys really think you can handle pirates?

Boys: Can we handle pirates? Of course we can.

Chris: Why we’ll have their heads on plates in no time, and use the rest of 
‘em for lobster bait.

Tom: Don’t be so high fallutin’ –come down to earth and let’s get on 
with the job.

Larry: (Doubtfully hanging back) Don’t you think it’s a risky business for 
us to get mixed up in, Tom?

Jim: I don’t think my pa would like it.

Tom: Okay, “small fry.” I guess Captain Jonathan was right when he called 
you “small fry.” You can stay home with the girls.

Jim: Gosh, no!

Larry: Heck, no!

Jim and Larry: We’re comin!

Tom: (To the boys) Do any of you fellows want to hold back?

Boys: No siree!

Tom: Any of you fellers scared to go?

Boys: No siree!

Tom: Come on then, let’s get ready.

Boys: Okay, boss, ready!

FINALE


Boys:	We’re really brave and bold bully boys,
	Though the captain says we’re only “small fry.”
	But now we’ll give the captain proof
	That each of us is a  tall guy.

Refrain: 
	Let’s hurry, let’s hurry, let’s raise the chain
	And put our foes to rout!
	Let’s hurry, let’s hurry, don’t be so long
	Or someone will find us out!

Girls:	Tell us boys, what can we do,
	We want to join the battle too?
	Can we get you some marlin spikes:
	Or a ball of tarry twine?
	Or can we fix you a picnic lunch
	Of herrings boiled in brine?
	Can we make you a cup of tea?
	Or polish a blunderbuss?
	Jiminy, jiminy, jiminy boys,
	Remember us!

Boys:	But sneering words cannot prevent
	The stuff that we are made of showing,
	When once we get our danders up,
	And really start a-blowing!
	Let’s hurry, etc.

Girls:	Heavens to Betsy, what a fuss!
	You’d think they were going to attack the moon!
	Will you look at the crazy kids
	At their game of make-believe.
	We wouldn’t play with the moonstruck louts
	Though they should give us leave.
	But we feel they are not very kind,
	And think we will raise a fuss.
	Jiminy, jiminy, jiminy boys,
	Just look at us!

Boys:	Let’s creep to the beach and listen a bit,
	And hear what the beggars are brewing.
	Then we’ll go in a body and board the boats,
	And see what the devils are doing.
	Let’s hurry, etc.

Girls:	All you do is brag and shout,
	And madly wave your arms about.
	We’ve had enough, so clear right out!
	Take your stuff and blow!

Boys:	Hey! Look alive maties,
	Hurry up, come along, crew!

Girls: (Spoken) Get going… Get going. Heavens to Betsy, what a fuss.

During the singing of the finale, the boys swagger around in mock military 
style. They become increasingly conspiratorial, and consistently ignore the 
girls, despite their efforts to be “in on the show.” The boys pull on their 
caps, tighten the laces of their boots, pull up their braces, and button up 
their jackets. Tom picks up the bar and they march off right down the path to 
Sheila’s Haven, the girls shooing them with their aprons and turning towards 
each other in disgust as they say the final words, “Heavens to Betsy, what a 
fuss!” while the final bars of music are played.

CURTAIN TO ACT 1.




ACT II

(Girls in same position as in Act 1 except that Jenny, Lorna, Dorothea and Ruth 
have changed about, as are Mary and Chloe). The scene is the same sometime 
later, it is a little brighter, the fog having lifted somewhat. In the course 
of the act, the fog gradually clears, until, at the time when Chloe (rise and 
move down and look) exclaims “Look, the sun’s out”, it is a perfectly 
clear afternoon. (See pg.36 song) 

The girls are awaiting the return of the boys; all in various attitudes of 
resigned impatience. Ruth and Dorothea are sitting together talking, the Irish 
twins are knitting (spool), Lorna and Jenny are kneeling on the ground doing 
their fingernails, while Chloe is busy once again with her embroidery.

Maggie: (Who is peering out anxiously in the direction of the Haven and 
listening with her head to one side) Can you hear anything?

Lorna: Just a seagull.

Jenny: Looking for his dinner.

Theresa: (In slow reverie) I always think a seagull’s cry is such a sad sound.

Monica: Not just “sad”, Theresa – but “melancholy.”

Jenny: (Irritated) Well don’t cry about it, for heaven’s sake!

Maggie: (Impatiently walking up and down) What can they be doing!

Chloe: Oh, Maggie, come and sit down by me here.

Mary: You won’t bring them back any quicker walking up and down that way.

Maggie: (Flopping down on a box) I hate the way women always have to stay 
behind.

Monica: Sighing and weeping!

Theresa: Like poor Sheila left on her rock!

Dorothea: Wasn’t that a sad story Biddy told us about the prison in the Haven?

Chloe: It’s no wonder people are so scared to go near the Haven – when you 
think of its awful history.

Ruth: Sheila being shut up in the castle so many years…

Dorothea: .. And Biddy’s pirate sweetheart hanged there.

(Sung, Music all) Mary: Isn’t it strange that Sheila and Biddy were so much 
alike.

Jenny and Lorna: They were both mixed up with pirates.

Chloe: And they were both beautiful once.

Maggie: But the difference is that Biddy still wants to be married.

Chloe: While Sheila wanted nothing but to go home to die!

Girls: While Sheila wanted nothing but to go home to die!


		SHEILA’S LAMENT



1. I long to fly as the seagulls fly,
	To Ireland’s misty shore.
	Happy to die as the roses die,
	When summer is no more.
	Happy to lie where my fathers lie,
	On Ireland’s far misty shores.

	
2. I long to return to my Irish home,
	And bygone happy years,
	But here I pine by the bitter brine,
	In spite of my bitter tears.
	Happy to lie where my fathers lie,
	On Ireland’s far misty shore.

	Happy to die,
	Happy, happy to die,
	Happy to lie
	On Ireland’s far misty shore.

The Coda is sung by the auxiliary chorus in the orchestra pit – sung almost 
in echo fashion as if the girls were meditating upon the emotions, and during 
the singing of which Dorothea and Ruth dab daintily their eyes, while the Irish 
twins wipe their faces with their aprons.

Maggie: (Drawing her sleeve across her nose, and looking around furtively, 
hoping no one has noticed her weakness) Well, weeping and sighing might have 
been all right for old-fashioned princesses – but I’m not old-fashioned, 
and I’m no princess either – I like action! I’d ruther be a pirate!

Chloe: (Glad to follow Maggie’s growing cheerfulness) Oh Maggie, wouldn’t 
you look funny brandishing a cutlass.

Theresa: Besides, our father says the high seas is no place for women.

Monica: And he’s very glad of it.

Maggie: Well the high seas would suit me fine – I couldn’t bear to be 
cooped up on shore like the fishermen’s wives around here.

Mary: Some people have to stay at home to look after the children, Maggie, like 
poor Mrs. Kelly.

Monica: I wonder how Mrs. Kelly is.

Theresa: I wonder if her baby will be a girl or a boy.

Maggie: Boy! (Pounding a fist into the other palm, and getting up and pacing up 
and down again) That reminds me – what’s keeping those boys… why are they 
so long.

Theresa: I hope they’re all right.

Monica: I hope they haven’t run into any trouble.

Maggie: (Who has gone to her old post of observation) (Near rock) Sssh!... I 
think I hear voices. (Sounds off stage) (Upper left stage door- We sure winched 
her up. They’re bottled in all right, etc.)

Chloe: (In a frightened whisper) What kind of voices?

Lorna: Does it sound like the boys? (The voices near)

Jenny: Sure, it’s them alright – I’d know Sam’s voice anywhere.

Maggie: Well, it’s about time – my patience was sure beginning to wear 
thin. (She dashes off to meet the boys)

Jenny: (Turning to Lorna) Patience! What patience?

The boys enter from the right (up left) – noisy, excited, and somewhat 
triumphant – Maggie dancing around Tom.

Maggie: Come on Tom – give – give! What’s the news? …. What’s the 
lowdown (up)?

Boys: (Sam) She’s up! She’s up! (Tom) We’ve pulled her up.

Girls: (Crowding around them) (Maggie) Goody, goody! (Mary) You found it after 
all? (Jenny) Oh Sam!  Good, good.

Jenny: Was it hard to pull?

Lorna: Did you all pull together?

Maggie: Was it very rusty?

Tom: Not so fast – one question at a time.

Dorothea: Did you hear anything?

Boys: (Jake) We sure did. (Ned) Yeah. (Pat) I’ll say.

Chris: Someone was makin’ a lot of noise.

Chloe: (Horror struck) Do you think they are really pirates?

Jake: “Really pirates.” – of course they’re real – all pirates are 
real.
Bill: They must have been from all the row we heard.

Maggie: (Yeow!) Perhaps they’re drunk then (staggers about and acts out 
ideas) – that’ll make them all the easier to catch; you just creep up and 
bundle their heads in gunny sacks.

Sam: Yes, but who’s goin’ to get that near?

Pat: Well maybe Maggie will – she’s smart enuf today to catch a whale with 
a bent pin.

Maggie: Yes, and I’d use you for bait- both of you.

Tom: Let’s stop talkin’ nonsense and start planning our next move- this 
situation could be dangerous.

Bill: (With braggadocio) Well we’re all expectin’ a bit of a fight, 
aren’t (ain’t) we?

Jenny: Sssh! Bill – let Tom think.

Maggie: Oh no! Don’t let Tom think; he’s sure to think up a reason for 
getting rid of us.

Tom: And that’s just what I’m aimin’ to do. (To the girls) You skip off 
home and get us some food and bandages.

Theresa and Monica:  (Theresa)Bandages! Oh,  (Monica) I hope we’re not going 
to need bandages.

Tom: Well its better to be safe than sorry.

Girls (Jenny): (Hesitating to go) Oh, Tom, if we can’t go, tell us what 
you’re going to do, anyway.

Bill: (Interrupting and looking important) Why – board ‘em and fight it out 
– we’ve told you that already. Then we’ll make ‘em walk the plank; give 
‘em a dose of their own medicine.

Tom: To tell the truth, we don’t know what we’ll do yet, no matter what 
Bill says. We’ll have to wait and see how things turn out.

Mary: (Gathering up the girls and exiting to the village with them) Come on 
girls – there’ll be plenty for us to do without war and bloodshed.

Maggie: (Disgustedly) Bandages! Bandages! (Gloatingly) War and bloodshed – 
Yippee!

 The girls all exit left.

Tom: Gather ‘round, fellers – let’s talk this over.

Boys: (In a babble of voices as they gather around Tom, squatting on their 
haunches and going into a huddle) Aye, aye sir… Okay, Okay… Okay (Sure) 
Strawboss.

Tom: Now, whose got any suggestions?

Julian: Should we disguise ourselves?

Jake: That’s a feather-headed idea.

Pat:  ….and wouldn’t butter no parsnips, anyway.

Bill: Well, why not? We could disguise ourselves as pirates; they say it takes 
a thief to catch a thief – so why not a pirate to catch a pirate?

Jake: Say Bill – that’s a spanking top lofty idea.

Boys (Larry): Pirates! Gee, that’ud be fun!

Jim: I’ll bet we’d all make good pirates.

Jake: (Shaking his clasped fists above his head) This’ull be a wunnerful mess 
of fish to fry.

Jonah: Hmmm. Fried fish! I can smell ‘em now. I hope we’re goin’ to take 
lots of food along.

Pat: Listen to butterball, will you – Hungry again!

Ned: Not again- Still!

Chris: (Irritated and impatient) Oh shut up – talking about food! What 
we’ve got to do next is to get armed.

Boys (Sam): Armed! Sure – that’s right – Now we’re cookin!

Tom: We’ll be prepared for anything then.

Bill: Friend or foe!

Tom: So everybody scatter and bring a weapon.

Bill: … and for Pete’s sake – try to look like pirates.

Tom: Meanwhile me and Chris’ull see what we can find in the packin’ shed.

Boys (Sam and Pat): Okay..Aye..Aye.. (They begin to leave for the village).

Bill: (Thoughtfully) Since we’ll be dealin’ with pirates, we’ll need a 
plank for them to walk off of.

Jake: Maybe we could pick one up where the new church is buildin’ – 
who’ll go?

Jonah: I don’t know about that – them’s holy planks.

Jim: Oh, we could return (take it back) it afterwards.

Jim and Larry: Anyway, holy or no – here we go. (They exit running to the 
village).

By now all the boys have gone back to the village, leaving Tom and Chris alone.

Tom: Let’s get the boodle box out and see what’s in it.

Chris: Right-O, Tom. (They go into the shed).

Tom: (From within) You get that end, Chris – you push and I’ll pull.

They push and pull an old seaman’s chest out of the shed into centre stage 
– grunts. The lights are lowered except for a spot light to centre attention 
on the chest.

Tom: (Puffing) Weighs as much as Davy Joneses Locker.

Chris: Must be dead men in it.

Tom: Fifteen of ‘em.

Tom and Chris: Yo ho ho, and a bottle of rum!

They open the chest and begin to sort and take out the contents.

Tom: (Taking out some oilskins) We won’t be needin’ these – no heavy 
weather this time of year.

Chris: ( Taking out some seaboots) These won’t hold water by the looks of 
‘em.

Tom: (Pulling out an array of objects tangled up with the string of a sounding 
line) Here’s Bill’s old soundin’ line – thought he’d lost it off 
Brandy Head.

Chris: (Diving at a bottle) A crack on the noggin with this would put a guy 
out. Might come in darned useful at close quarters.

Tom: Could do. (Seizing some hatchets) But these look like the best haul of the 
season- here – you take one.

Chris: (Feeling the blade) ‘Taint very sharp.

Tom: Well you only want to stun ‘em – not cut their heads off.

Chris: I guess these old slugs won’t help us none.

 Tom: Might – put ‘em to one side for now. What’s this at the bottom 
here?.. A big bundle of greasy rags. (Taking them out).. all carefully tied up 
with a regular bosun’s bite… (untieing it) Well they ain’t all rags… 
here’s something… looks like a flag (looking at it and then throwing it to 
one side).

Bill: (Who during the foregoing conversation has crept unseen into the shed 
carrying a large object with a white sheet, emerges from same – tying a 
cutlass around his waist with a bright sach (putting on jacket and cap)… The 
lights come up) Say fellers, look what I’ve got!

Chris: (To Tom) Look out! (Wowie!) (To Bill) Be careful. You’ll mow yourself 
down with that seaman’s razor.

Tom: Say! That’s Captain Jonathan’s cutlass (uniform) – you’ll get hell 
if he sees you with that.

Bill: How’s he to know… I’ve just borrowed it for the time 
being…It’ll be a lot more useful than all that junk you’ve got there… 
What’s that (pointing to the flag)… Say, just what we needed (Picking up 
and spreading it out).. A Jolly Roger!

Tom: Heh! Somebody must have been doin’ a bit of rum-runnin’ … before my 
time.

Bill: (Interrupting) That don’t cut no ice; I’ll nail it on to a piece of 
stick. (He goes into the packing shed to do so.. bangs hard).





Julian and Pat enter from the left. Julian is wearing a bandana over his head 
and a black patch over one eye. He carries a large pair of brass fire tongs. 
Pat is wearing one of Maggie’s scarves t tied around his waist as a sache, 
with a knife tucked into it. He carries an old gun.

Tom: (Directing Chris’s attention to Julian) Will you look at that one-eyed 
old sea dog!

Chris: What are you expectin’ to catch with them sugar tongs?

Julian: Why, I aim to snatch at the legs of the enemy with these brass lobster 
claws.

Tom: … and look at Pat’s blunderbuss! When he fires that – watch out for 
your eyebrows.

Pat: Sure – and eyebrows ain’t the only thing I can blow off – try me 
with a few heads.

Jake comes in dressed in full pirate regalia – bandana on head, sache and 
knife. He has his grandfather’s gun and carries a couple of old butcher’s 
cleavers (or knives).

Jake: Here, Tom. (Throwing down the cleavers)… thought these would be useful. 
Say! (spotting the rags).. just what I needed. (He picks up a rag and begins to 
polish his gun)… Sure is dirty enuf…

Tom and Chris have now put the junk back into the box, leaving out the useful 
things. They close the lid, leaving the boodle box in the centre of the stage.

Jonah: (Entering from the village wearing a red hunting cap and carrying a 
sling shot and several rabbit snares) Look out, Goliath, here I come. 
(Brandishing the sling shot) I’m goin’ to be David. All I need now is five 
round pebbles.

Tom: (Indicating the slugs) What about these? .. figgered they might be 
useful…

Jonah: What a stroke of Providence! (I’ll say! Give ‘em here) (Stowing them 
in his pocket).

Ned and Sam enter wearing bandanas on their heads.. they are in a jaunty mood 
and are whistling a snatch or two of Billy Tops’l .. They are carrying the 
family rifles and are wearing old soldiers’ ammunition belts slung over their 
shoulders. Ned is carrying a lunch pail also.

Ned: (Handing the lunch pail to Jonah) We’ve brought you some prog (grub), 
Jonah.

Sam: So you won’t get nervous durin’ the battle.

Jonah: (Taking the lunch box) Gee thanks. (Putting down his sling shot, opening 
the box and taking out a sandwich and looking into it with disappointment) Ahh! 
Peanut butter! (Putting the halves of the sandwich together again and dropping 
it back into the box, and at the same time filling his mouth with an apple).

Bill: (Reappearing without the flag) Always thinkin’ of his stomach!

Tom: (To Sam and Ned) Glad to see you’ve brought some ammunition along.

Ned and Sam: (Patting their chests) Trust us old hands!

 All the boys have now returned from their homes (with the exception of Jim and 
Larry) and are busy polishing up their weapons for the fray.

Tom: Has everybody got a weapon?

Boys: (Brandishing them) Aye, aye, sir.

Tom: Good! Is everybody here?

Boys: Aye, aye, sir.

Jake: No, Jim and Larry aren’t back yet.

Tom: Well they’d better hurry or we’ll have to go without them.

Bill: Wait a minute – first of all we’ve to to make up our minds who’s 
goin’ to be capt’n of this foray.

Boys: (Jake) Sure, sure – (Chris) that’s right – (Jonah) Tom! – He’d 
make a good Capt’n.

Tom: No – I’d rather be first mate. Why not choose Jake – his grandfather 
was captain of a good clipper ship.

Jake: No thanks, fellers – I’m no big shot! What about Jonah?

Jonah: I don’t think I’d bring you much luck – you know what they say 
about fellers called Jonah!

Bill: (Who during the foregoing has been shifting from foot to foot 
impatiently) Well I think I aughter be capt’n. Captains always carry 
cutlasses (have caps) – and here’s mine… and I could borrow my uncle’s 
parrot, too.

Julian: I think Bill’ud make a spankin’ good captain!

Ned: (Dryly) Well, he don’t look much like a captain to me -  where’s his 
official lid (rig)?

Bill: Don’t you worry, Ned – I’ve got everything here on deck. (He 
disappears into the shed, closing the door after him).

Boys: (Inquisitively moving on the shed) (Sam)What do you think he’s up to? 
What’s he got in there?

Bill: Suddenly appears at the door, causing the boys to fall back in amazement. 
He strikes a commanding pose – a gold braided captain’s cap on his head, 
cutlass at his side, the Jolly Roger in his right hand, and a parrot swinging 
in a cage in his left hand.

Boys: (Ned) Well I’ll be blowed… (Jake) So will I… Don’t he look the 
part… Even to the parrot.

Bill: Avast there! Silence you lily-livered swabs. (Advancing to centre stage 
and standing upon the boodle box) I’m Capt’n Bill Bowlin’ of Belbriggan 
Bay! – Ready for anything and afraid of nobody! … So it’s up with the 
Jolly Roger: We’ll flog these freebooters to kingdom-come, sure as my 
name’s Bill Bowlin’.

Boys: Hurray! Hurray! 

		He’s Captain Bill Bowlin’.
		We’ll follow Bill Bowlin’ of Belbriggan Bay.








CAPT’N BILL BOWLIN’

		Heave-ho! For Capt’n Bill Bowlin’,
		He loves to go strollin’
		Where fair maidens wait.
		Blow! Blow!  For Capt’n Bill Bowlin’,
		His pockets are rollin’
		With pieces of eight.

 1. 	Whenever he feels like a bottle of pop,
		A fountain pen or a mutton chop,
		He draws his cutlass and plunders a shop,
		And takes what tickles his pleasure.


2.	A terrible man is the captain bold,
		His manners will sure make your blood run cold,
		His crew does double quick what they are told,
		His temper is shockin’ unruly.


3.	For supper he’ll swizzle a keg of rum,
		And dance on the deck till the cows come home,
		He’ll fall asleep in his sea boots, by gum.
		To snore with a racket unholy.

4.	Beware, Beware, of this captain Bill,
		He’ll scuttle a ship for a bit of a thrill,
		If he doesn’t curse you, his parrot sure will;
		His parrot’s a cranky old creature.


	5.	He sits on the yard-arm and yells at the mate,
		“Belay, you lubber, bring me my plate,
		For Polly wants crackers, and Polly won’t wait,
		Step lively, me lad, or I’ll beatcher.”
	

	The boys swagger and roister around – flashing their weapons – the 
parrot shrieking out in hoarse counterpoint such phrases as “Fire and 
brimstone,” “What’s the world a’ comin’ to,” “Git away Biddy,” 
and “Step lively there.”

Bill: Here you (indicating Jake and Julian) – clear the deck, push that 
locker out of the way.

Jake and Julian: Aye, aye, sir. (They push it back into the packing shed).

                                   
Bill: On the double there! (hastening them) 
: Now I want to get my crew labelled. 
: First mate, Castleton.

Tom: Here sir.

Bill: Step forward. (Tom does so, knuckling his forehead in nautical salute). 
Second mate Tickle – Move up. (Sam does so, forming line with Tom) You, Jake 
Horner – you’re Bosun’ (He moves up without saluting) Bosun Horner – 
smarten up – You’re on the good ship “Never-Give-Up” and this is my 
quarter deck – salute me when you’re on my quarter deck.

Jake: (Saluting him with half-hearted gesture) Aye sir.

Pat: (With rising indignation) Who’s gettin’ too big for his boots!

Bill: Silence, you scum! Able-bodied Greenfield – take that apple out of your 
mouth – allus thinkin’ of yer stomach – You can be cook.

Jonah: Gee thanks (Saluting smartly – for Jonah)

Bill: Christopher Doyle

Chris: Here sir.

Bill: You’re the Sawbones – you hand out the physic and the bandages. 
(Chris moves forward). You, Cartwright – take yer hands out o’ yer pockets!

Pat: (Who has been looking out to sea, peering under his hand) Say! Hold 
everything fellers – do you see what I see? (The boys all turn right and look 
out to sea).

Boys (Ned): Oooh – Gee- Gosh – someone’s comin’.

Julian: Looks like (It’s) old Jonathan scullin’ in.

Bill: (Astonished) What’s he doin’ back again! Gee, he’ll spoil 
everything.

Ned: (Aside) Here’s where Bill gits took down a peg or two. (Hugging himself 
with glee).

Bill: I wonder what he wants… thought he was safe in Cupid’s Cove.

Jonah: Maybe he’s forgotten something – anyway he won’t be here long – 
he don’t believe in gosspin’ – let’s just push our stuff into the shed 
until he’s gone.

Boys: Good idea… good idea. (They begin clearing things into the shed).

Jonathan: (His voice coming up from the sea) Ahoy thar! Ahoy thar!

Boys: (Snatching off their disguises and stuffing them into their pockets, and 
making a rush on the shed with their stuff) Look out! Clear the deck! Don’t 
forget the parrot. (Jake lifts the parrot carefully and deposits him in the 
shed- even Bill, forgetting his finery, helps clean up. The scraping of 
Jonathan’s boat is heard).

Jonathan: (Still calling from below, right) ‘ear, one o’ you young varmits 
– catch aholt o’ me nunny bag, will ye. (An old Gladstone bag is thrown up 
onto the stage, extreme right. Jonah and Jake run over to help him, Jake 
picking up the bag while Jonah goes over to help the old gentleman up the dock 
side).

Sam: For goodness sake, look at you, Bill – with his hat on and everything!

Tom: Get in there and keep out of sight. (Pushing Bill in the packing shed) 
We’ve sure pulled in a net-full of pepper-corns today! (Tom has just drawn 
the door of the shed to as Jonathan appears on stage. Tom looks a bit sheepish 
and hesitates protectingly in front of the shed).

Jonathan: (Appearing on stage) Oh lard, me rheumatic auld bones’ll be the 
death of me yit.

Jake: Why Captain Jonathan, we didn’t expect to see you back today.

Jonathan: Oh, oi forgot me ‘baccy – cant’ do withou me baccy. (Taking his 
bag from Jake and looking around at the boys) Well – are yer nets finished?

Boys: Yes, Captain… We’ve finished ‘em.

Jonathan: (Looking around at the empty dock) Where are they, thin?

Ned: We wuz a doin’ them in the shed.

Jonathan: An ‘fur whoi?

Sam: Cause the girls wuz botherin’ us.

Jonathan: Ah, the girls! ‘Tis the same old thing – too many clackin’ 
vemale tongues fair addles a man’s ‘ead.

Jonah: That’s right, captain.

Jonathan: An what be ye thinkin’ of doin’ naow?

Tom: We were aimin’ to go out squid jiggin’.

Jonathan: Squid jiggin’ eh! Good! ‘ere I think I  got a couple a’fine new 
jigs in  me nunny bag.. (Turning front, supporting his bag on his knee, and 
rummaging in same).

Larry and Jim appear backstage from the village, toting a long and unwieldy 
plank – they have just come in a few steps when they catch sight of 
Jonathan’s back – turn to each other with faces aghast, and drop the plank 
with a horrible crash.

Jonathan: (Startled, dropping his bag with the contents falling out; bits of 
string, a carpenter’s pencil, a bottle opener, a tobacco pouch, some red lead 
jigs, and an old dried up potato – and turning around angrily) Land o’ 
Goshen! Are ye determined to scare me deef? What be ye a’ doin’ of with 
that thar plank, vor ‘heaven’s zoik? Oi thought ye was goin’ squid 
jiggin’.

Jim: No, we wasn’t goin’ jiggin’, sir.

Larry: We was goin’ to use it for.. for.. (Stuttering as he sees where his 
explanation is going to lead).

Jake: … (Filling in the gap)… for mendin’ the lobster pots.

Jonathan: What! Use that plank vur mendin’ lobster pots! ‘oo ‘er yer 
troin’ ter cod? (Looking around suspiciously) Oi b’lieve thars somethin’ 
fishy goin’ on around ‘ere. (Seeing the ring of faces on tenterhooks 
looking at him) Tom Castleton, did you arder thim to vetch this groanin’, 
be-barnacled, bit o’riggin’?

Tom: No sir.

Jonathan: (Looking around menacingly) ‘oo knows anythin’ about it?

Boys: (Sam) Not me.. (Jake) not me, sir..(Jonah) don’t know nuthin’ about 
it…

Jim and Larry meanwhile stand the plank on end and lean it against the packing 
shed.

Maggie: (Appearing from the village, carrying a large covered basket) Haven’t 
you gone yet? What’s the matter?

Boys (Chris): Oh Maggie – How (Are we) glad we are to see you!

Maggie: (Looking around suspiciously) What’s made me so popular all of a 
sudden?

Chris: (With sweet sarcasm) Why, you’ve always been popular with us, Maggie. 
(Maggie gently pokes her tongue out at him).

Jonathan: (Curiosity getting the better of him) What ‘ave ye got thar?

Maggie: (Catching on to the situation) Oh, hello Captain Jonathan – 
provisions, sir.

Jonathan: Provisions! Anyone would think ye war goin’ to feed the fleet… 
Provisions fer what?

Maggie: (Setting the basket down on the wheel barrow) Oh, boys are always 
hungry.

Girls: (Calling from off-stage) (Jenny) Maggie, Maggie!  (Lorna) Is it safe to 
come?

Boys: (Calling out enthusiastically, feeling that their arrival will remove the 
tension). (Ned) Sure, (Jonah) come on- (Jake) of course it is, (Sam) – 
we’re waiting for you.

Sam: Why, you’re always welcome here.

All of the girls, with the exception of the Irish twins, enter from the 
village. Mary is carrying a basket of bandages on her arm.

Jenny: (In reply to Sam’s remark) How nice to have a welcome for a change!

Lorna: (A little sarcastically) You’ve healed our wounded feelings nicely.

Sam: (Dryly) Did I use any names? (Jenny and Lorna toss their heads, and screw 
up their noses at Sam).

Jake: (Running to Mary, relieving her of her basket, and ducking it behind a 
barrel) Be careful, Mary (Aloud) We have company today.

Mary: Why, good-afternoon, Captain Jonathan – how nice to see you up and 
about again. Have you been doing anything for your rheumatism?

Jonathan: (Gruffly) (Ah,)  Nuthin’ much but stayin’ in bed the last 
fortnight.

Mary: (Going over to Jonathan and stooping to pick up the contents of his nunny 
bag – replacing them in the bag) Biddy says that a raw potato in the left hip 
pocket is good for rheumatism.. Oh, I see you have one.. (Holding up the 
potato).. Biddy must have given it to you, Captain.

Boys and Girls: (Teasing) Oooh, Captain Jonathan!

Jonathan: (Snatching the potato from Mary and shying it into a lobster pot) 
Arrh, puffin-butter! She stuffed it in me bag last year when oi was took bad, 
an’ oi vorgot all about it.. but oi don’t take no stock in that ole 
‘ooman’s quack remedies; it’s a wunner thar’s anyone left aloive in the 
village to tell the tale!

Maggie: (Looking around wickedly at the others) For shame, Captain Jonathan – 
and Biddy always speaks so well of you.

The boys, meanwhile, have gathered around Tom in front of the packing shed 
door, while the Irish twins arrive from the village, innocently and 
industriously winding bandages.

Theresa and Monica: Good afternoon, Captain Jonathan – How is your rheumatism 
today?

Jonathan: (Growling with impatience) Arrh. – ‘tis no better.

Theresa: Our mother says a cut potato in the left hip pocket does wonders for 
rheumatism.

Jonathan: Yes, an’ oi do be knowin’ whar she ‘eard that ‘un. What’s 
that you gels are a’ doin’ of?

Monica: (Importantly) Why, we’re rolling bandages.

Theresa: .. in readiness for the battle, Captain.

Jonathan: Battle! Wha-t  battle?

Theresa and Monica: (Despite the frantic gestures of the boys) Why, the battle 
the boys are going to fight (Monica) with the pirates. (The boys gasp audibly).

Jonathan: (Turning to the boys) Oh, zo its pirates, is it?... and its 
fightin’ is it? I thought you wuz goin’ squid-jiggin’.. What’s all this 
‘anky-panky about pirates?

Boys: (Tom) Nuthin’ sir – (Sam) nuthin’ sir – (Ned) nuthin’, 
nuthin’ (Jake) –nuthin’ sir.

Pat: … Just some wild story the girls have been spinnin’.

Sam: But you don’t need to take no notice of them; you know how women jabber.

Girls: (In loud sounding gasps) Ooooh….Ooooh!

Jonathan: (Looking sternly at the boys) Oi don’t believe ‘tis nuthin’, ye 
young scamps – war thar’s smoke thar’s boun’ to be voir; what we that 
‘ank O’ timber an’ baskets o’ provisions an’ the rollin’ a’ 
bandages – an’ the ‘angdog looks o’ you young pups – thar mus’ be 
somethin’ brewin’!

Girls: (Lifting their hands accusatively at the boys) (Dorothea) And there is, 
too Captain!... (Ruth) They’re just afraid to tell you!

Lorna: You’re just a bunch of weak-kneed jelly fish!

Jenny: Hiding behind our petticoats!

Girls (Mary): Fancy calling us “yarn spinners”!!

Ruth: While they spin us one yarn and Captain Jonathan another.

Mary: And to think that we’ve done most of the work!

Theresa: Our mother says that deceivers always come to a bad end.

Monica: And you are deceiving Captain Jonathan – that’s awful.

Jonathan: (Looking at the girls half questioning them) Haah? (And then looking 
accusingly at the boys) Haah!You do look suspicious-loike! (Seeing Tom still 
standing guard in front of the packing shed). Tom Castleton! What are ye 
‘oiding in thar?

Tom: Nuthin’ sir.

Jonathan: Nuthin’ mee oi! Will yer koindly step ter one zoid. (He advances 
menacingly on the packing shed, pushing Tom to one side. He throws a door open 
and exclaims as he goes in). What’er we got in ‘ere naow?

The boys stand in one mesmerized group – the girls gloating over their 
discomfiture.

Maggie: I’ll bet you’ll catch it now.

Jonathan: What ‘ave we got ‘ere! Oh oi zoi, what ‘ave we got ‘ere! 
Virin’ pieces, and marlin spikes, rabbit snares and sling shots – what 
meanin’ ‘ave they togither? (Firing them out of the door, and then coming 
upon Julian’s fire tongs and coming to the door with it).. ‘An what moight 
this be vor? (Dropping it as he hears the startled cry from his parrot within 
the shed).


Polly: (Simulated voice) Shiver me timbers! Vire an’ brimstone! What’s the 
world comin’ to! Git away Biddy.. Git away Biddy!

Jonathan: (Turning around quickly) Whoi, that’s moi parrot!  (O Polly!) 
{Polly} (Git away Biddy! repeat). What’s she doin’ ‘ere? (He goes in, 
brings her out, and sets her down outside the door) Poor Polly, be ye vroited 
out o’ yer veathers? ‘Tis vine care they’re bin a’ givin’ you – 
arter this oi’ll keep ‘ee at ‘ome whether oi be zick or no. (He turns 
again into the shed)… An’ what else ‘ave ye got ter show me? (From 
within) Wall, oi do be blowed – shiver mee timbers, if it ain’t me liddle 
nevy, Willyum – ‘idin’ in the karnar! – all ready vor the battle, oi 
suppose. (Sarcastically said)… (Dragging him outside)… ‘ere –what’s 
this ye’ve got on; mee Zunday cutlass (clothes), an’ mee capting’s 
‘at… give it ‘ere (Taking the cap off Bill’s head and adjusting it on 
his own).. that’s presumption…not t’say insubordination.

Bill: But uncle, I was goin’ to be capt’n, and I needed it to look right.

Jonathan: Thar’s more to being a captain than wearin’ an’ ‘at an’ 
playin’ the goat.

Jonah: We thought he’d make a good captain –seein’ you had taught him the 
ways of the sea.

Jonathan: (Somewhat mollified) Ay,  I’ve give ‘im a bit a’ larnin’ oi 
suppose.

Bill: … and there ain’t nobody around here with proper gear like yours.

Jonathan: That maybe.. But you, Captain?... Captain a’ what?

Theresa and Monica: (Sententiously) Why, captain of the ex-ped-ishi-on against 
the pirates!

Jonathan: Still ‘arpin’ on that string, are ye! Well, oi’ve never ‘eard 
o’ no pirates round ‘ere – leastways not for yars an’ yars!

Julian: (Excitedly) You’d never believe it, Captain Jonathan, but I saw them 
this mornin’ down in Sheila’s Haven – their boats was packed in so tight 
you could have walked the decks from shore to shore.

Jonathan: Boats in Sheila’s Haven! Pirates! (Bursting out into a roar of 
laughter).. Poppycock!... That be danged for a yarn… Besides it was powerful 
voggy this marnin’, an’ eyes is deceivin’ argans.

Julian: But I did see them, Captain – sure as my name’s Julian.

Boys (Tom): We all went down and saw them.

Chris: (Emphatically)… and I heard ‘em shoutin’, too.

Bill: Aren’t we right, uncle, to be preparing ourselves when there’s 
pirates about.

Jonathan: Naow, Bill mee boy – ‘tis toime enuf to be doin’ somethin’ 
when you know these gran’ pirates ain’t jist ‘allucation; a voggy sea 
makes zights and zounds that do be wunnerful strange to think on, which vetches 
up entirely different on a clear doy. Naow, Oi do be rememberin’ the toime 
when a capt’n as wuz lost in the vog thought ‘ee was shipwrecked on the 
coast of Vrance – whar do ‘ee think ‘ee war? (Looking around and grinning 
triumphantly).

Boys and Girls: (Droop visibly and groan) (With assumed enthusiasm) (Tom) 
You’d better tell us, Captain – (Mary) we can’t guess.

Jonathan: Open your ears thin, an’ listen while oi tell ‘ee (pulling up a 
box and sitting on it centre stage).

The boys and girls sit, kneel, or squat near where they happen to be – some 
Mexican fashion against the packing shed, with knees drawn up, others on 
cod-traps, boxes, or the wheelbarrow.

Chris: (To Tom) Hope the old codger won’t take too long – we want to get on 
with the business.

Tom: Ssssh! Don’t let him hear you.

Jonathan: (Turning on Tom and Chris) Will ye stow yer gab thar, an’ pay mee 
sum moind?

Chris: We wuz just settlin’ down.

Tom: Crew standin’ by, Captain!

Jonathan: (Now that quiet prevails) Vair enuf… ‘ere we go.

JONATHAN’S BALLAD

1. Now come all ye small fry and listen to me,
Don’t ever believe what you think you see.
Now oi remember when oi was young
A captain went swoiling off Twillingate lee.


He was a mariner hardy who’d sailed the world around.
He’d hunted seals and harpooned whales, and never run ground.

He didn’t give a hang for the weather at all;
The wind she might whistle till all was blue;
For he could sail any ocean there was
With nanny-goats for crew.




2. There blew up a storm-cloud outside of the bay
That followed the ship all the night and the day,
‘Twas thicker than blankets the vog she came down,
The captain fell swearing abaft and belay.


It was the son of a seacook the steered the ship so queer.
He didn’t know his compass points and didn’t seem to “keer.”

		He couldn’t see his hand in the front of his face,
		The decks were awash in a regular stew;
		And he doubted he’d weather this turrible storm
		With nanny-goats for crew.
		With nanny-goats, etc.,

3. Now while they were standing about in the swell,
The captain, the crew, and their cat as well,
There came such a scrape and a sickening lurch,
A dreadful dismay on the company fell.
There was a horrible shindy of cursing from fore and aft,
While the captain moaned and wrung his hands like someone stricken daft.
		A lamp shone its beam by the rail of the ship,
		A voice roared out “Anglais” and “Qui etes-vous?”
		And the captain cried, “Stuck on the coast of France,
		With nanny-goats for crew,
		With nanny-goats for crew, etc.,

4. But not all the Frenchmen are natives of France,
The vog it had led them the devil’s own dance,
By landing them safely on Isle St. Pierre.
Which rides on the breast of our own St. Lawrence.
So that is why you’ve told us how we can’t believe our eyes,
Nor yet our ears which play such tricks on them who thinks they’re wise.
		Said we on the shore, “It be wunnerful strange
		How braggarts are pinched in the other shoe;
		And how our brave captain could sail so far
		With nanny-goats for crew.
		With nanny-goats for crew, etc.,
	
		Indeed I said, It’s true, I said;
		“With nanny-goats for crew!”


(During the singin of the ballad, here and there, the boys could make some 
mocking and derisive nanny-goat bleats).

Monica: (Primly) We can hardly believe your story, Captain Jonathan.

Theresa: (Primly) It seems odd for a goat to be able to steer a ship.

Jonathan: Arrh, they warn’t real goats – jist dressed up silly poppinjays, 
loike young Willyum ‘ere.

Chris: (Getting up) Oh fancy (Imagine) talkin’ about goats – its pirates 
we’re thinkin’ of.

Julian: (Apologetically) Yes, Captain – we sure enjoyed your story, but we 
got to get back to the business on hand.

Chris: After all, when the fleet’s out, we have to look after things.

Jonathan: (Irritated at their tenacity of purpose in the face of his logic) 
Cain’t yer git yer moinds offa that woild tale. Oive jist bin tellin you – 
‘taint nuthin’ but apacel o’ nonsense spun out o’ yer own noggins.

Tom: But how could we all be mistaken – and Biddy as well?

 Jonathan: Biddy! What’s that ole witch got to do with it?

Pat: (Shrugging his shoulders) Well she was here this morning, and she saw 
them, too.

Jonathan: Arrh, what stuff ‘as she bin a’ feedin’ you?: don’t listen to 
what she says – ye know she ‘alf daft – she couldn’t zee no vurther 
through this vog than that capting oi was tellin’ ye about. She jist imagines 
things – zame as ‘im.

Jake: Yes, but the capt’n was in unfamiliar waters, while Biddy has liven in 
the Haven for ever so long.

Jonathan: Zo she may ‘ave, but thars niver been no boats thar in our toime.. 
Why it’s bin desarted zince me vather’s doy.. Boats in Sheila’s Haven.. 
What a tale!

Tom: How can you be so sure, Capt’n Jonathan – you might be mistaken, too, 
and Biddy could be right.

Jonathan: (Flaring up) Oi’ve ‘ad enuf o’ yer nonsense! Oi’ve never seen 
zuch a gaggle o’ young ‘uns zo zet on their own vain delusions. Why, ‘ere 
oi’ve ‘ad me loif toime on the zea, and ought to know what oi’me a 
talkin’ about.

Chris: (Heatedly, aside) He may have spent a life time chewin’ salt, but that 
don’t mean he can spit pickles!

Bill: We think there are boats there, and we’re going to act accordin’.

Ned: … and we’re not nanny-goats – or billy-goats either!

Chris: Enuf said – let’s get movin’.

The boys pick up their weapons and the things Jonathan has thrown out.

Maggie: You’re not leaving me out this time.

Jenny and Lorna: Nor us either. (Lorna) (Uh, Uh)

Girls: We’re all going.

Theresa and Monica: (Jumping up and down with excitement) Even us.

Boys (Tom): Okay – let’s go – lead on Captain Bowlin’.

Jonathan: (Thundering at them, and stalling them in mid-career) Well tear down 
me mizzen mast, an’ chop it up vor kindlin’! Oi can zee ye’re bound vor 
the divil an’ all: There’ll be trouble, vor oi’ll repart yer goings on to 
yer vathers when they come ‘ome. An’ as vor boats in Sheila’s ‘aven! In 
spoite o’ yer woild vancies, and that mad wooman’s words as well – Why, 
oi’ll bet ye mee boat an’ all o’ me gear against.. (Looking around).. 
against Biddy’s Oirish potater thar…(Pointing to the pot with the potato in 
it).. that thar’s not a bebarnacled keel in it!

Jonathan bends down to pick up his nunny bag while the children crowd towards 
the path leading to Sheila’s Haven. They are all halted again in their traces 
by Biddy’s frantic calling from off stage.

Biddy: (Calling from afar, but nearing rapidly) Coo-ee-ee! Coo-ee-ee! (She 
arrives from the village all in a dither – shawl flying, hair awry). Ach – 
childern… childern. It’s destroyed ye are! Holy St. Bridget, Holy St. 
Patrick and all the holy saints… save ye from yer sins… Ach… What a 
dreadful pother an’ misbegotten stew ye’ve made of it!

Tom: Why Biddy, what ever’s the matter?

Boys and Girls: What’ wrong? What’s wrong?

Biddy (R?): Ach, Holy mither.. ‘tis a sorry bit a’ news I have to be 
tellin’ ye.. ‘twas told to me by ole man Kelly himself, an’ ‘tis the 
truth, for ‘twas himself saw it as he was a’-leggin’ it up from the sea 
– so anxious he was to git home knowin’ his wife’s time was come.

Boys and Girls: What did he tell you? What did he see?

 Biddy: Ach, ‘tis so out of breath I am ‘tis the divil of a word more that 
I kin utter.

Lorna: You (She) can’t be as out of breath as all that with all the talking 
you’re (she’s) doing.

Mary: (Offering her a seat) Sit down, Biddy, and calm yourself – why, 
you’re all in a flutter.

Biddy: An’ why wouldn’t I be in a flutter? – haven’t I bin hearin’ 
the news as would be puttin’ the holy father himself into a flutter?

Jonathan: For the lard’s zoike, ‘ooman, stop openin’ oysters an’ speak 
yer piece.

Boys and Girls: Yes, Biddy, tell us what’s the matter.

Biddy: The matter! ‘tis the boats in Shayla’s Haven! (The children all look 
at Jonathan with an “I told you so” look) They don’t belong to no 
pirates! ‘Tis the home fleet it is! ‘Tis the (whole) home fleet ye’ve 
bottled up there!

Boys and Girls: (Incredulously, the boys delivering an astonished whistle) The 
home fleet! (The fleet!) The home fleet!

Biddy: The home fleet it is! ‘an sure, ‘tis in a lather yer fathers were 
tryin’ to lower the chain ye jist hauled up, wi’ that auld winch a’ 
squeakin’ an’ a’ grindin’ away: such a story that auld man Kelly did be 
makin’ of it. (He! He! He!)

Boys and Girls (Tom): How did they get in there? (Mary) (Louder) How ever did 
they get in there?

Biddy: Sure an’ they got lost in the fog, an’ mistook the auld Haven for 
Belbriggan Bay; an’ it’s hom they’d be, an’ everybody so glad to see 
thim, if ye hadn’t bin luggin’ that auld chain up an’ creatin’ sich a 
warld a’ mischief! I’d hate to be one o’ yez when yer fathers gits home 
(Oh Lordy! Ho Ho).

Jonathan: Zounds! ‘ere’s a pretty kittle o’fish! You’ve lifted the auld 
‘arbour chain, ‘ave ye? Ye mist ‘av bin daft to think of sich a thing! 
(To Biddy) It do be wunnerful strange the henergy ye (they) can spend on 
foolery, when a few ‘ome chars can set ye by the ears; ‘twould give me 
amighty sense o’ zatisfaction to be birchin’ the back zoids o’ every wan 
o’ ye meddlesome, ornery, fiddle-fisted rascals! What diviltry will ye young 
bloiters be gittin’ up to next?

Biddy: Ach, Jonathan, don’t be so hard on the young scamps – sure an’ 
they’ll get enuf scoldin’ later… ‘tis lucky for thim, though, their 
fathers have got thimselves out at last.

Boys and Girls: Oh, they’re out, are they? Thank goodness!

Chris: Why didn’t you tell us that in the first place?

Jim: We nearly had heart failure.

Larry: … But we’ll catch it anyway as soon as they get home.

Jonathan: Ye sartainly will, an’ well ye deserve it – you an’ yer 
pirates! Didn’t oi tell ye thar warn’t not pirates thar?

The boys look at each other shamefacedly and rather dumbfoundedly.

Jonah: (Not to be dashed by a few words of censure) Excuse me, Captain 
Jonathan, but that ain’t just what you said; What you said was, there 
wasn’t a “bebarnacled keel” there.

Jonathan: Why, what an’ ‘air splittin’ young beggar you are, maybe oi 
did, but that ‘aint what I meant – an’ you know it.

Jonah: (Continuing unpertubed) You said, too, you bet your boat and all your 
gear against Biddy’s Irish potato that there warn’t.

Jonathan: (Taking off his cap, and scratching his head) Wall, oi’ll be 
blowed! Zo oi did! Zo oi did!

Maggie: So you see, Captain, you’ve lost your bet, and now Biddy owns your 
boat.

Jake: Oh don’t hold him to his words – ‘twasn’t a real bet, was it 
Captain Jonathan?

Boys and Girls: Puffin-butter to that! Sure it was – it certainly was a real 
bet.

Jonathan: (To Jake) Thank’ee for takin’ mee part, boy, but although oi was 
speakin’ careless at the time, oi do be a man of honor – zo it looks as 
though oi’ll ‘ave to fark over.

Boys and Girls: (Maggie): Gee, Biddy! What a pot of gold! You’re a rich woman 
now. (severally) With a boat.. and a net…  (Pat) and a gaff… and a 
fishin’ line(s)..  (Bill) and two pairs of oars and all!

Biddy: (Holding her head) Holy mither! What a shock to mee poor old head! – 
it feels like a bird’s cage stuffed wi’ paper! I niver expected sich a 
stroke a’ good fortune in the auld of mee age.

Maggie: (Taking the potato out of the lobster pot and dropping on her knees 
beside Biddy) .. and here’s the very potato, Biddy! Don’t you remember? … 
You gave it to the captain for his rheumatism.

Biddy: (Taking the potato and turning it in her hand and looking up at Jonathan 
wistfully) An’ did it do ye any good, Jonathan?... I’m surely hopin’ that 
it did.

Dorothea: (To Mary) Oh how kind Biddy is! Like a ministering angel… always 
trying to help other people’s aches and pains.

Mary: Yes, she can heal almost anything.

Jonathan: Yer a good auld ‘ooman – I do believe it ‘elped me zum.

Jake: I guess you’ll have to do a bit of fishin’ for her at first, Captain 
– she’ll be powerful helpless.

Jonah: (With consummate archness) Fishin’ ain’t usually a woman’s job!

Boys: (Nudging each other with ironic agreement) Not usually.

Jonathan: (To Jake) ‘Tis right ye are boy. (To Biddy) and if ye gits into any 
difficulties, mam, oi’ll be more than glad to ‘elp you out.

Chloe: Oh, how nice it will be for someone to help Biddy; she’s always had to 
do for herself.

Jonathan: (To Chloe) … and a truer word ye never spoke – ‘tis a mighty 
thin loife she’s ‘ad of it up till naow. (Turning to Biddy) .. Bless yer 
poor auld ‘eart, ‘ooman – ‘tis welcum ye are to mee boat an’ mee gear.

Biddy: (Dabbing her eyes with the corner of her shawl) Oh Jonathan, mee bye – 
I couldn’t be takin’ it!... ‘tis heart-scalded I’d be to be seein’ a 
sailorman without the use of his boat and his gear… (Suddenly arch and 
teasing).. Near as bad as to be seein’ a man without a darlin’ wife to be 
cookin’ his meals, an’ lookin’ after him when he’s sick… an’ a’ 
mendin’ his socks.. Now let me be lookin’ at the pair ye have on… 
(Tugging at him)… I’ll be swearin’ ye have holes in thim the size of  
lobster pots.

Jonathan: (With sudden return to his crustiness) None o’ yer hinterfearance! 
Oi can mend ‘em myself as well as any busy-fingered vemale.

Biddy: (Bridling, with return to her crustiness) Ah you cross grained old 
kermudgeon – the back o’ me hand to you – I was goin’ to be givin’ ye 
back yer boat, but now ye shan’t have it… (An idea suddenly striking her of 
the reciprocal bargain to be made).. unless ye do be takin’ me along with it 
as yer lovin’ wife.. (With daring).. an’ do ye be givin’ me a kiss into 
the bargain this minute.

Jonathan: (Thunderstruck with embarrassment) Whist ‘ooman! ‘ave ye no sense 
o’ dacency? – thar be childern present.

Jenny: Oh don’t mind us.

Lorna: (Eyeing Sam) We like to see a little petting (excitement) now and then, 
don’t we?

Biddy: Now, don’t ye be slidin’ out from under mee elbow, Jonathan – ye 
can have yer boat an’ me fer yer wife or nuthin!.. – them’s me last 
wards, ye can take it or leave it, Captain.. an’ think well before ye do be 
refusin’ for ‘tis maybe yer last chance of a happy life.

Jonathan: (Jokingly) A ‘appy loif – long wi’ a tongue loike yourn!

Pat: Don’t strain so hard on the hauser, man (Sir), or you’ll choke 
yourself.

Jonah: ‘peers to me like this here’ud be a good anchorage for you, Captain.

Jonathan: Aye, Jonah! They zay a safe anchorage is worth a lot a’ fuss – 
an’ though I’ve got a crusty way about me, I’m not against bein’ moored 
at last.

Boys: It looks to us as if you’re hooked for sure, Captain Jonathan.

Jonathan: Arrh… I zee it’s no use strugglin’ like a shrimp in a net – 
when ye’re took, ye do be took! an’ thar’s no denyin’ it… zo it’s 
spliced we’ll be Biddy, mee girl, zince oi sartainly can’t do without me 
boat.

Bill: (Astonished at his capitulation) Well, I’ll be blowed!

Monica: (Primly) I am so glad you’re going to marry Biddy, Captain Jonathan.

Theresa: (Primly) Our mother says that wedlock is a holy institution.

Tom: Well Capt’n – congratulations. (Shaking hands with him)

Jonathan: Thank’ee boy.

Boys and Girls: (Taking off their hats and waving them around). 
Congratulations! Congratulations!  Your ship’s come home! Done it at last! 
The tide has turned.  

Pat (Turning to Ned) Beached at last!

Ned: High and dry, I’d say.

Jonah: I sure hope you’ll be happy.

Dorothea: What a romantic ending to an old quarrel!

Ruth: .. to be moored at last in Cupid’s Cove.

Chloe: (Jumping up and down with excitement) Oh! A real wedding!

Maggie: (With dawning awareness of their mission accomplished) So you see, 
Biddy we found the perfect charm for you after all!

Biddy: (Nodding her head knowingly) Yer a wise girl, Maggie McGie – an’ 
sure ‘tis a charm of childern that’s broken the lonesome spell of 
Sheila’s Haven, an’ brought me the luck of the Irish at last…

Boys and Girls: Brought you both the luck of the Irish – at last!

Girls:					Boys:

Dear old Biddy, she’s won at last –		Poor old Jonathan, he’s been 
hooked –
Like a blushing bride she’s taken;		Like a spouting whale he’s 
stranded;
Magic and mischief, and Jonathan too,	Him and his boat and his parrot as well,
Have guided her into the haven.		For Biddy has everything landed.
Haul her up and heave her over.		Haul him up and heave him over.

For Biddy has everything landed.		For Jonathan Biddy has landed.

The boys and girls join hands one by one during the singing of the round, and 
circle the old couple in a simple round dance, concluding with the final words 
of the round.

	Oh!		There’s lots of fish in the salt of the sea;
			There’s herring and mackerel, caplin and squid,
			But not all the fishermen land their catches
			As well as Biddy did.


			There’s halibut, hake and there’s scallop,
			Fish of the blue sea weather.
			There’s rosefish, greyfish, codfish, plaice,
			All in the kettle together.

			We have lobsters, smelts, and we’ve flounders;
			Please won’t you state your wish?
			For here we have got the makings of
			A pretty kettle of fish!

	Oh!		There’s lots of fish in the salt of the sea; etc., 
etc.

			For Biddy is caught;
			Jonathan’s caught,
			Netted so nicely
			Together.

Chloe: (Sung) Look! Look the sun’s out – the fog has lifted.

Girls and Boys: Oh Biddy! Oh Jonathan! Even the sun is wishing you the best of 
happiness and health! And so do we… and so do we!

Jonathan: Biddy and me, we  thank you ‘eartily; ‘tis many a year oi’ve 
fished the zea, but never hexpected to catch a mess of such sagacious and 
discarnin’ small fry.

Biddy and Jonathan: Who gave us the occasion of so much pleasure.. so much 
pleasure.

Tom: What do you say boys… Let’s give ‘em three cheers. Three rousing 
cheers for Captain Jonathan and Biddy! Hip-hip-hurray! Hip-hip-hurray! 
Hip-hip-hurray!

Jonathan: And naow, zince we ‘ave a moind to be zelebratin’; oi’d loike 
to zee the boys do us a harn-pipe – to remoind me of mee yound doys afore the 
mast. Kum on Bill (Tom) – oi’ve taught ye ‘ow to do it.

Bill: Sure uncle – come on fellers. (Tom): How about it fellows?

Boys: Aye, aye, Captain Bowlin’!  (Falling into place) (Aye, aye.)

Bill (Tom): Then let’s make the deck rumble.

They dance a sailor’s hornpipe;  HORNPIPE: “BELBRIGGAN BAY.”

Girls (Jenny): (Who have gathered around group, cheer and encourage the various 
boys) Come one Larry, (Lorna) Good goin’ Sam … That’ll shake the 
barnacles off your legs.

Jonathan: (As the first section of the dance comes to its close) ‘alf a 
minute, lads.. ‘ere, let me show you ‘ow we done it on moi ship. (He dances 
the central section of the dance alone and with his characteristic rheumatic 
limp).

Boys: (Who have fallen back in respectful silence) Good! Good! That’s showing 
us how.

Jonathan: (As his solo comes to a close) Now kum all an’ follow me. (The boys 
join him, imitating his motions of pulling and hauling – and imitating also 
his rheumatic limp. As the dance comes to its close, the girls clap their hands 
and cheer).

Jonathan: (Puffing) Oi zure enjoyed that bit o’ ‘oopin’ about – near 
made me forgit mee rhemuatiz (To Biddy) Come along, now, ole ‘ooman – oi 
can ‘ardly wait to git home to sit in mee chimley karner.

Biddy: Not so fast, Jonathan, mee bye, first of all we’d better be totin’ 
up the road a piece to ask Father Murphy to publish the bans on Sunday – 
an’ then I’ll be goin’ home with ye for a visit an’ make ye a good cup 
o’ tea.

Jonathan: (Putting his arm around her and smiling at her with teasing 
tolerance)… Makin’ sure oi don’t slip the bok, are ye?... Wall.. kum on 
then.

They exit to the village arm in arm.

Boys and Girls: We’ll be seeing you.


Scene 5


Dorothea: I wonder if he’s going to give her a kiss now that they’re out of 
sight.

Theresa: (Shocked and scandalized) Not on the road to the village!

Monica: (Turning to Theresa) That wouldn’t be seemly, would it?

Bill: (Looking up and pointing out to sea) Look! There’s the fleet.

Pat: Just heavin’ in sight around the point.

Ned: They must have squirted out of that bottleneck at the Haven with a right 
smart pop.

Sam: I guess they did to be so close already.

Julian: They’re sure coming home in fine style.

Chloe: … And see – all the flags are flying.

Tom: That means they’ve got a bumper catch.

Maggie: Oh, yes, there’ll be tons of fish aboard.

Boys and Girls:  	There’ll be tons of fish aboard.
  	Fish boats a’ comin’.
	Fish boats a’ comin’.
	Lots of fish in Belbriggan Bay.
	Lots of fish in Belbriggan Bay.

		






THE FLEET’S IN


1. Oh! The fleet’s in, the fleet’s in,
The men are home from sea,
With father home and uncle home,
What merry, merry times there’ll be;
In Avalon and Spaniard’s Bay,
In Harbour Grace and Carbonear,
‘Twill be a time of holiday,
‘Twill be a happy time of cheer.
For its fish, fish, fish, fish,
Binsfull and basketsfull,
Pailsfull and tanksfull 
Of fish, fish, fish, fish,
Bright, silver fish!


2. Oh! The fleet’s in, the fleet’s in!
The men are home from sea,
With all the fellers home again,
What sprightly dancing there will be;
At Rattling Brook and Blow-me-down,
At Nipper’s Cove and Hearts Desire,
There’ll be a lot of joy in town
Around the cosy old home fire.

For its, etc., etc.


3. Oh! The fleet’s in! The fleet’s in!
The men are home from sea.
With Jerry, Joe and Jack at home,
What tales to tell there sure will be;
At Quidi Vidi (x), Hearts Delight,	(x) Kitty-vitty.
At Port O’Basque and Codroy,
There’s many a sailor’s song tonight
Will fill the homely heart with joy.

For its, etc., etc.

Pailsfull and tanksfull,
Netsfull and boatsfull,
Armsfull and bagsfull,
Seasfull and skiesfull
Of bright, silver fish!

The FISHING REEL is danced between the second and third verses of the foregoing 
song. The dancing of the reel is led off by Sam in the following manner –

Sam: (To Jenny and Lorna)  Come on girls! Let’s be friends for a change, 
Let’s bury the hatchet, Let’s dance.

Jenny and Lorna: (In eager consternation) Both of us!

 Sam: Sure – I’ve got two arms, haven’t I? – one for each of you.

The three of them begin the FISHING REEL, the other boys and girls joining in 
after it is under way.

Tom: (On the conclusion of the chorus The Fleet’s In, and with impatient 
change of mood). Well I’ve had enough fish – and enough play actin’, too 
– Now to work – we’ve got to get things shipshape around here – looks 
as if every square inch of dock will be needed for the catch.

Jake: We sure don’t want anything lying around to remind the men of our 
pirate shenanigans.

Boys (Chris):  You said a mouthfull – let’s get busy.

Monica: Sister Angelica says that order is the first rule of Heaven.

Theresa: So we will help, too.

The boys and girls gather everything up together.

Tom: (Once again assuming leadership) You’d better pile the stuff that 
belongs to Biddy and Jonathan on the dockside so it’ll be handy… and put 
the weapons by the signpost ready to take home.. and for heaven’s sake, Bill 
– get rid of that Jolly Roger!

Bill: Yeah, I guess we’re through with it, alright.

Biddy and Jonathan return from the village in the midst of the bustle of 
clean-up.

Jonathan: Zo yer cleanin’ the dock, are ye! It’s a pleasure to zee you 
doin’ somethin’ practical for a change.

Jonah: It seemed like a good idea to get rid of this incriminating trash afore 
the fleet heaves alongside.

Ned: (Who has been standing with his hands in his pockets all during the 
clean-up) ‘Taint much use tryin’ to cover up.. we’ll be keel hauled 
anyway – might as well make up your minds to that.

Maggie: Crepe hanger!

Jim: “Crepe-hanger” my eye! – you don’t know my old man.

Larry: … and mine’s worse!

Jonathan: Well boys – me and Biddy ‘ave bin thinkin’ about this – arter 
all, yer fathers ‘ad oughter know their own ‘ome water by naow, vog or no 
vog, an’ if the women volk finds they’d dun zuch a mutton ‘eaded thing as 
to sail into the ‘aven – whoi, they’d look proper ridiculous… zoo if 
you kin git to old man Kelly first and ask ‘im to keep mum, maybe ye kin 
strike a bargain with them.. Oi don’t think they’ll make too much fuss then.

Julian: That’s a dowser of a good idea! If they don’t tell on us about the 
pirates, we’ll be dumb about the Haven.

Boys: (Shaking clenched fists above their heads) That’s got ‘em!

Biddy: That’s good Jonathan – that’s puttin’ it in a nutshell!

Jonathan: (Shaking his head) Mariners ain’t what they used to be in my young 
doys!

Girls: How clever of you, Captain Jonathan, to think of that! (General assent, 
except from Maggie)

Dorothea: What poetic justice!

Jonathan: (Expansively to the boys) ‘Tis not to be wondered at yer ‘avin’ 
a last fling, for ye be but midway between youth and man’ood – an’ next 
year ye’ll be off to zea yerzelves – Men fer sure!

Biddy: (Corroborating Jonathan) Then ‘tis yourselves will be toilin’ to 
bring home the fish an’ achin’ to be greetin’ yer sweethearts on the dock.

Maggie: (Impishly) .. and then we’ll be catching husbands, too – as 
you’ve done, Biddy!

Jonathan: (Taking Biddy’s arm) Kum on mee girl – we got to git ‘ome fer 
that cup o’ tea.

Biddy: (Turning to the children as they pass over to the dockside) I’ll be 
sayin’ goodbye to ye now, childern – an’ may the holy saints be rainin’ 
blessin’ on ye.

Boys and Girls: Goodbye, Biddy, Goodbye, Captain Jonathan.

Biddy: Do you be helpin’ me, Jonathan – ‘tis a long way down!

Jonathan: Don’t be narvous, ‘ooman, steady does it!

Polly: Steady does it! Steady does it! Cupatea! Cupatea!

Jonathan: Oh, we’ve vorgotten Polly – (calling up) ‘and ‘er down, will 
ye?

Jake: (Handing the parrot down) Here – you take her, Biddy – and the hat 
and the cutlass, too- you’re captain of the boat now!

Jonah: (Rubbing his hands complacently) Well we sure sewed that up.

Dorothea: (Sweetly) Don’t they look cute (sweet) together?

Tom: (Breaking in abruptly) Come on… Hurry up – Get that stuff off the dock 
so that there’s room for the catch – they’re almost here.

Boys and Girls: (Babble of voices) I’ll take this – you take that. Have you 
got the basket? Where are the bandages? Here’s Jonah’s slingshot… 
Where’s my cleavers?

Sam picks up his gun and ammunition belt – Jenny and Lorna run after him – 
he gives them each one of the things to carry and walks out himself unburdened. 
The rest rush off the stage with various articles…

Jim and Larry are the last to leave – they have almost disappeared around the 
side of the packing shed when Larry stops Jim.

Larry: Say, we forgot the holy plank! We’ll have to take that back. (They 
come back for it.) Catch that end, strongman!

Jim: (Catching the plank) What’ll we say if Father Murphy’s missed it?

Larry: (Shrugging his shoulders) Huh – I don’t know … but it’ll come to 
me… (then dropping his end of the plank as he doubles up with laughter) Oh! 
I’ve got it…

Jim: (Testily) Ouch! Did you have to let go like that? (Dropping his own end 
and standing up in indignation – hands on hips) What ever’s got into you? 
Give me the low-down, eh?

Larry: Ha Ha! We’ll tell him we borrowed it for an old pirate called Captain 
Jonathan to walk off of…

Jim: Oh yes, (Laughing) Plump into the sea of matrimony!

Jim and Larry: What a splash! (Kerplunk!)

They pick up the plank and run off with it, laughing.

Curtain and flourish of music.

Chorus: (Singing from the orchestra pit, as the curtain descends).

	Well, there is the end of our kettle of fish!
	What do you think of our kettle of fish?
	It’s a mighty, pretty kettle of fish!
	Ready to tickle the men of the sea.

Curtain open to Children

	For the fleet’s in, the fleet’s in!
	The men are home from sea.
	With father home and uncle home
	What tales to tell there sure will be.
	In Avalon and Spaniard’s Bay,
	In Harbour Grace and Carbonear,
	‘Twill be a time of holiday,
	‘Twill be a happy time of cheer.

	Happiness in Belbriggan Bay!
	Plenty of fun in Belbriggan Bay!
	Lots of joy in Belbriggan Bay.

Turn and Biddy and Jonathan enter for repeat.

(The curtains part again, showing the full cast of characters arranged around 
Biddy and Jonathan – and all join in a repeat of the chorus from the words 
“The fleet’s in, the fleet’s in, etc.

CURTAIN


