THE LIBRETTO
(Director’s Copy)
Revision of the old libretto, 
June – July, 1962


BELBRIGGAN BAY

“How the boys and girls of the village brewed a pretty kettle of fish.”
 A LITTLE FOLK OPERA IN TWO ACTS
For Two Adults and a Group of Young People


The boys continue their net mending as they sing the “BALLAD OF BILLY 
TOPS’L”. The ballad may be sung with any suitable combination of voices: 
solo in part – two or more voices – full chorus; and with any combination 
of accompanying sounds such as humming and whistling. The effect must be to 
make it sound and look natural and unaffected.

THE BALLAD OF BILLY TOPS’L


1. Oh, Billy went down with his dog to the sea
For he and his dog were allus together,
And Billy said, “Skipper, my lad,” said he,
“The sky is grey and the wind is free,
Oh, I must get fish, and it looks to me
Like wunnerful fishin’ weather!”

Refrain:
            Oh, Billy, Billy, Billy, my boy,
                        He went for to fish in the ‘Never-Give-Up.’

2.   Now Skipper looked wise and his barkin’ was loud
      As Billy and he went coddin’ together,
      And Skipper sat for’ard while Billy ‘lowed
      That such a smart pal made him feel right proud.
      No other dog fished along with the crowd
      And made so light of the weather.

3.   When Billy and Skipper went sailin’ that day,
      (A trim little punt she was altogether)
      The wind it was light as they hauled away, 
      And steered for a point just outside the bay,
      But somethin’ went wrong then, and Billy cried, “Hey!
      How suddenly wet is the weather.”

4.   The dory turned over and all of the gear
The dog and the boy they fell in together,
Now Skipper was scared for his master dear,
And grabbed at his collar, which Billy thought queer,
For he could swim fine and he felt no fear,
In spite of the dirty weather.

5.  “Back, Skipper,” cried Billy, “And don’t you annoy,
      Or sure we will drown in the water together.”
      But neighbouring fishermen yelled, “Ahoy!
      Put your arms round his neck, and he’ll save you, boy.”
      He did that, and Skipper, he yelped for joy, (Chris)
      And brought him out of the weather.”

Oh Billy, Billy, Billy, my boy,
    He went for to fish in the ‘Never-Give-Up.’



ENCHANTMENTS: A WITCHING SONG

              1.    Roses, daisies, mignonette;
   I haven’t found a sweetheart yet.
  What shall I do for lover true?
   Put a four-leafed clover in my shoe.
	
	
            Refrain:  Deep in the woods the ivies twine,
                           Where is the man who’s goin’ to be mine?


            2     Blue for lovers, brides wear white;
       Look for a snail on a moonlight night,
      Where e’er his feet of silver go –
      See the star-bright name of my true beau.

3.    Cocklebur and thistle blue
       Will show me if my sweetheart’s true,
       Come, tell me daisy, tell me dear,
       Shall I find a black-eyed lover this year?

4. Nine steps back and search the dust;
Where is the man that a girl can trust?
Tie me a knot and pray the moon,
Send a handsome lover to woo me soon.

Weave him a spell, and what’s amiss
With asking him straight for a hug and a kiss?

Dance  (Scene ends at end of dance)

The girls all stand, breaking into groups, spreading their arms as though 
dressing for distance in order to have room for weaving their magic spells, 
while the stage lights dim to suggest the magic rite. The girls step and draw 
necromantic circles and squares on the ground, singly or in groups. During the 
short dance they join in a “Circle Dance” which is symbolic of the wedding 
ring, while during the fourth verse they break circle, two of the girls holding 
their hands up while the others pass under, as in the old game, “Farmers in 
the Dell,” or “London Bridge.” They raise and lower their arms to catch 
some of the girls. This is symbolic of the marriage bower and of the 
“catch.” The lights go up.
THE BALLAD OF THE IRISH PRINCESS


1. There was a young queen of Ballyvorneen,
Died when her babe was small,
And Sheilah the child she grew up to be wild,
With niver a mither at all.
She’d leap and she’d run like a boy in the sun,
And swim like a fish of the sea.
The warriors tall in her father’s hall
Were hardly more bold than she.

                    Refrain:
                          Keening alone on the cold keening stone,
                          Keening so mournful by Newfoundland’s shore.

2. Now when the colleen was sweet seventeen,
Her father bespoke her fair.
He said that indeed she must sew and read
And bend her to wifely care.
Now the maiden’s two aunts who did well in France
Were said to be pious and wise,
And there she should turn her in order to learn
To shine in a husband’s eyes.

                     3.    So away to sea in a ship went she,
  A-glitter with silks and gold.
  But alack, they were seen on the ocean green,
  And seized by a pirate bold. 
  The pirate’s heart it was smitten apart
  With love for the princess slim,
  But she turned him away, and she wouldn’t say
  One kindly word to him.

   4.   And the captain sware with a frowning air
   As they touched on the rocky shore,
  That unless she would be his own fair laydee
  She’d see her old home no more.
  Alone but proud the sad princess vowed
  That she’d be no pirate’s wife.
She’ never put shame on her father’s name,
Not even to save her life.


    5.   So he shut her alone in a keep of stone
    With its base in the sounding sea.
    And though she was fair, yet he left her there,
    And sailed to his own countree.
    ‘Tis told to this day that she floated away
    On a funeral iceberg slow.
    And the seagulls they cried as they watched her glide
    Into the mist and snow.
FINALE


Boys:	We’re really brave and bold bully boys,
	Though the captain says we’re only “small fry.”
	But now we’ll give the captain proof
	That each of us is a  tall guy.

Refrain: 
	Let’s hurry, let’s hurry, let’s raise the chain
	And put our foes to rout!
	Let’s hurry, let’s hurry, don’t be so long
	Or someone will find us out!

Girls:	Tell us boys, what can we do,
	We want to join the battle too?
	Can we get you some marlin spikes:
	Or a ball of tarry twine?
	Or can we fix you a picnic lunch
	Of herrings boiled in brine?
	Can we make you a cup of tea?
	Or polish a blunderbuss?
	Jiminy, jiminy, jiminy boys,
	Remember us!

Boys:	But sneering words cannot prevent
	The stuff that we are made of showing,
	When once we get our danders up,
	And really start a-blowing!
	Let’s hurry, etc.

Girls:	Heavens to Betsy, what a fuss!
	You’d think they were going to attack the moon!
	Will you look at the crazy kids
	At their game of make-believe.
	We wouldn’t play with the moonstruck louts
	Though they should give us leave.
	But we feel they are not very kind,
	And think we will raise a fuss.
	Jiminy, jiminy, jiminy boys,
	Just look at us!

Boys:	Let’s creep to the beach and listen a bit,
	And hear what the beggars are brewing.
	Then we’ll go in a body and board the boats,
	And see what the devils are doing.
	Let’s hurry, etc.

Girls:	All you do is brag and shout,
	And madly wave your arms about.
	We’ve had enough, so clear right out!
	Take your stuff and blow!

Boys:	Hey! Look alive maties,
	Hurry up, come along, crew!
SHEILA’S LAMENT



1. I long to fly as the seagulls fly,
	To Ireland’s misty shore.
	Happy to die as the roses die,
	When summer is no more.
	Happy to lie where my fathers lie,
	On Ireland’s far misty shores.

	
2. I long to return to my Irish home,
	And bygone happy years,
	But here I pine by the bitter brine,
	In spite of my bitter tears.
	Happy to lie where my fathers lie,
	On Ireland’s far misty shore.

	Happy to die,
	Happy, happy to die,
	Happy to lie
	On Ireland’s far misty shore.

The Coda is sung by the auxiliary chorus in the orchestra pit – sung almost 
in echo fashion as if the girls were meditating upon the emotions, and during 
the singing of which Dorothea and Ruth dab daintily their eyes, while the Irish 
twins wipe their faces with their aprons.

 Boys: Hurray! Hurray! 

		He’s Captain Bill Bowlin’.
		We’ll follow Bill Bowlin’ of Belbriggan Bay.


CAPT’N BILL BOWLIN’

		Heave-ho! For Capt’n Bill Bowlin’,
		He loves to go strollin’
		Where fair maidens wait.
		Blow! Blow!  For Capt’n Bill Bowlin’,
		His pockets are rollin’
		With pieces of eight.

 1. 	Whenever he feels like a bottle of pop,
		A fountain pen or a mutton chop,
		He draws his cutlass and plunders a shop,
		And takes what tickles his pleasure.


2.	A terrible man is the captain bold,
		His manners will sure make your blood run cold,
		His crew does double quick what they are told,
		His temper is shockin’ unruly.


3.	For supper he’ll swizzle a keg of rum,
		And dance on the deck till the cows come home,
		He’ll fall asleep in his sea boots, by gum.
		To snore with a racket unholy.

4.	Beware, Beware, of this captain Bill,
		He’ll scuttle a ship for a bit of a thrill,
		If he doesn’t curse you, his parrot sure will;
		His parrot’s a cranky old creature.


	5.	He sits on the yard-arm and yells at the mate,
		“Belay, you lubber, bring me my plate,
		For Polly wants crackers, and Polly won’t wait,
		Step lively, me lad, or I’ll beatcher.”
	



JONATHAN’S BALLAD

1. Now come all ye small fry and listen to me,
Don’t ever believe what you think you see.
Now oi remember when oi was young
A captain went swoiling off Twillingate lee.

He was a mariner hardy who’d sailed the world around.
He’d hunted seals and harpooned whales, and never run ground.

He didn’t give a hang for the weather at all;
The wind she might whistle till all was blue;
For he could sail any ocean there was
With nanny-goats for crew.

2. There blew up a storm-cloud outside of the bay
That followed the ship all the night and the day,
‘Twas thicker than blankets the vog she came down,
The captain fell swearing abaft and belay.

It was the son of a seacook the steered the ship so queer.
He didn’t know his compass points and didn’t seem to “keer.”

		He couldn’t see his hand in the front of his face,
		The decks were awash in a regular stew;
		And he doubted he’d weather this turrible storm
		With nanny-goats for crew.
		With nanny-goats, etc.,

3. Now while they were standing about in the swell,
The captain, the crew, and their cat as well,
There came such a scrape and a sickening lurch,
A dreadful dismay on the company fell.

There was a horrible shindy of cursing from fore and aft,
While the captain moaned and wrung his hands like someone stricken daft.

		A lamp shone its beam by the rail of the ship,
		A voice roared out “Anglais” and “Qui etes-vous?”
		And the captain cried, “Stuck on the coast of France,
		With nanny-goats for crew,
		With nanny-goats for crew, etc.,

4. But not all the Frenchmen are natives of France,
The vog it had led them the devil’s own dance,
By landing them safely on Isle St. Pierre.
Which rides on the breast of our own St. Lawrence.

So that is why you’ve told us how we can’t believe our eyes,
Nor yet our ears which play such tricks on them who thinks they’re wise.

		Said we on the shore, “It be wunnerful strange
		How braggarts are pinched in the other shoe;
		And how our brave captain could sail so far
		With nanny-goats for crew.
		With nanny-goats for crew, etc.,
	
		Indeed I said, It’s true, I said;
		“With nanny-goats for crew!”



Girls:					Boys:

Dear old Biddy, she’s won at last –		Poor old Jonathan, he’s been 
hooked –
Like a blushing bride she’s taken;		Like a spouting whale he’s 
stranded;
Magic and mischief, and Jonathan too,	Him and his boat and his parrot as well,
Have guided her into the haven.		For Biddy has everything landed.
Haul her up and heave her over.		Haul him up and heave him over.

For Biddy has everything landed.		For Jonathan Biddy has landed.

The boys and girls join hands one by one during the singing of the round, and 
circle the old couple in a simple round dance, concluding with the final words 
of the round.

	Oh!		There’s lots of fish in the salt of the sea;
			There’s herring and mackerel, caplin and squid,
			But not all the fishermen land their catches
			As well as Biddy did.


			There’s halibut, hake and there’s scallop,
			Fish of the blue sea weather.
			There’s rosefish, greyfish, codfish, plaice,
			All in the kettle together.

			We have lobsters, smelts, and we’ve flounders;
			Please won’t you state your wish?
			For here we have got the makings of
			A pretty kettle of fish!

	Oh!		There’s lots of fish in the salt of the sea; etc., 
etc.

			For Biddy is caught;
			Jonathan’s caught,
			Netted so nicely
			Together.










They dance a sailor’s hornpipe;  HORNPIPE: “BELBRIGGAN BAY.”


Scene 5


Boys and Girls:  	There’ll be tons of fish aboard.
  	Fish boats a’ comin’.
	Fish boats a’ comin’.
	Lots of fish in Belbriggan Bay.
	Lots of fish in Belbriggan Bay.

THE FLEET’S IN


1. Oh! The fleet’s in, the fleet’s in,
The men are home from sea,
With father home and uncle home,
What merry, merry times there’ll be;
In Avalon and Spaniard’s Bay,
In Harbour Grace and Carbonear,
‘Twill be a time of holiday,
‘Twill be a happy time of cheer.
For its fish, fish, fish, fish,
Binsfull and basketsfull,
Pailsfull and tanksfull 
Of fish, fish, fish, fish,
Bright, silver fish!


2. Oh! The fleet’s in, the fleet’s in!
The men are home from sea,
With all the fellers home again,
What sprightly dancing there will be;
At Rattling Brook and Blow-me-down,
At Nipper’s Cove and Hearts Desire,
There’ll be a lot of joy in town
Around the cosy old home fire.

For its, etc., etc.


3. Oh! The fleet’s in! The fleet’s in!
The men are home from sea.
With Jerry, Joe and Jack at home,
What tales to tell there sure will be;
At Quidi Vidi (x), Hearts Delight,	(x) Kitty-vitty.
At Port O’Basque and Codroy,
There’s many a sailor’s song tonight
Will fill the homely heart with joy.

For its, etc., etc.

Pailsfull and tanksfull,
Netsfull and boatsfull,
Armsfull and bagsfull,
Seasfull and skiesfull
Of bright, silver fish!

The FISHING REEL is danced between the second and third verses of the foregoing 
song. The dancing of the reel is led off by Sam in the following manner –


Curtain and flourish of music.

Chorus: (Singing from the orchestra pit, as the curtain descends).

	Well, there is the end of our kettle of fish!
	What do you think of our kettle of fish?
	It’s a mighty, pretty kettle of fish!
	Ready to tickle the men of the sea.

Curtain open to Children

	For the fleet’s in, the fleet’s in!
	The men are home from sea.
	With father home and uncle home
	What tales to tell there sure will be.
	In Avalon and Spaniard’s Bay,
	In Harbour Grace and Carbonear,
	‘Twill be a time of holiday,
	‘Twill be a happy time of cheer.

	Happiness in Belbriggan Bay!
	Plenty of fun in Belbriggan Bay!
	Lots of joy in Belbriggan Bay.

Turn and Biddy and Jonathan enter for repeat.

(The curtains part again, showing the full cast of characters arranged around 
Biddy and Jonathan – and all join in a repeat of the chorus from the words 
“The fleet’s in, the fleet’s in, etc.
CURTAIN
