THE LIBRETTO
(Director’s Copy)
Revision of the old libretto, 
June – July, 1962


BELBRIGGAN BAY

“How the boys and girls of the village brewed a pretty kettle of fish.”
 A LITTLE FOLK OPERA IN TWO ACTS
For Two Adults and a Group of Young People


Book by Joan Buckley and Leonard A. Woods.
Lyrics by Joan Buckley.
Music by Leonard A.Woods.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

Boys of Belbriggan Bay
Christopher Doyle  	Stocky redhead, awkward
Tom Castleton  	Eldest, serious
Jake Horner		Heavyset and outspoken
Jim Farnley		Cut up
Bill Bolton		wants to be a captain, open, enthusiastic
Larry Johnson		Cut up and a tease
Pat McGie		 same type as Maggie
Sam Tickle		Early teen-age chums
Ned Cartwright	
Jonah Greenfield
Julian Williams				
The Kelly Kid
Old Jonathan (adult role)			 Voice for Polly

Girls of Belbriggan Bay
Maggie McGie	
Theresa Donovan
Monica Donovan
Mary Moncton
Ruth Manly
Dorothea Featherstone
Lorna McBride
Jenny Cooper			
Chloe Patterson
Biddy McCroom (adult role)

BELBRIGGAN BAY

ACT 1.

The scene is laid on the dockside of the harbour of Belbriggan Bay, a little 
out port somewhere along the jagged and rocky coastline of Newfoundland. In the 
centre rear of the stage is a tall signpost with an arrow marked “The 
Village”, pointing to the left and backwards, and another arrow marked 
“Sheila’s Haven” pointing to the right and backwards.Over the arms of the 
signpost is draped an old fishing net, while at the bottom is an untidy 
collection of oil barrels, fishing traps, and a wheelbarrow. To the right is a 
large outcropping of rocks, between which and the signpost is the pathway to 
Sheila’s Haven – commonly designated as the “right” entrance or exit. 
On the extreme right of the stage are pileings denoting the edge of the dock. 
Exit to the “ocean” is made past these pileings and down into the right 
wings. On the extreme left of the stage is a large practical packing shed seen 
in three-quarter view. It is old, grey, and weather-beaten, and has a creaky 
swinging door, and also a well-worn sign tacked up on one side saying 
“Belbriggan Bay.” Between the shed and the signpost is the roadway to the 
village of Belbriggan, commonly designated as the “left” entrance or exit. 
Fishing tackle, cod-traps, and nets with buoys and weights attached are heaped 
up here and there; a rope windlass and several lobster pots add to the general 
fisherman’s clutter. Several large metal drums or barrels and packing cases 
make convenient seats for the action of the play. In lieu of a naturalistic 
backdrop depicting the village and neighbouring cliffs, a plain grey drop is 
used; upon which lights, appropriate to the changing degrees of weather and 
mood, may be shown.

The time of the play is “some time ago.”

When the scene opens, it is early morning: fog clothes the settlement – a 
gull cries eerily – a fog horn punctuates the silence. The stage is quite 
empty of people. The door of the packing shed is ajar, and from within comes 
scrapes, rattles, and ejaculations. Suddenly, the door is pushed wide open as 
Christopher Doyle emerges backwards, dragging a pile of tangled nets.

Christopher Doyle is a stocky, red-headed, blue-eyed boy of Irish extraction. 
He is a big, awkward lad, somewhat prone to quick fits of temper. He is wearing 
blue jeans, gumboots, a cap, and an old green Cardigan sweater.

Tom Castleton: is one of the older boys. He is dark-haired and brown-eyed. He 
is serious and responsible – He is neatly and conservatively dressed, and 
wears dark blue trousers, black-rolled neck sweater with long sleeves, and a 
trim captains’ style cap, dark blue with a soft cloth peak pulled well down 
on his head.

Jake Horner enters from the “village.” He is a smallish, well-set boy – 
dark and quite muscular. He is a bit “old-fashioned” – possibly through 
having been brought up by his grandfather. He is rather slow and deliberate in 
his movements. His dress is neat: black jersey and jacket, and dark green 
corduroys, with a round sailor’s hat on his head.

Larry Johnson and Jim Farnley are chums who are always seen “palling” 
around together. They are young, thin, lanky teen-agers. They are very 
mischievous. They are dressed alike: blue jeans, no hats, and spotted 
handkerchiefs around their necks.



 Ned Cartwright, Sam Tickle, and Pat McGie  from the left entrance. They are 
all older boys, quite adult in stature and more mature than the others. They 
wear blue-jeans and pull-over sweaters.

Captain Jonathan and Bill Bolton from the road to the village. The Captain is 
poking along with his walking stick, while Bill is carrying his uncle’s 
suitcase in one hand and his black Gladstone bag in the other.

Captain Jonathan is an old retired sea captain, of medium height, grey-haired 
and with a Kruger fringe of whiskers around his face. He is a bit gaunt from 
his recent illness. He speaks with a broad west-country Devonshire accent, and 
has a characteristic lumbago limp. His garb consists of a dark blue seaman’s 
toque, a turtle-necked jersey in the neck of which is a knotted black silk 
handkerchief, a brown seaman’s slop over the jersey (a loose canvas shirt, in 
the sloppy Joe style.) His heavy duffle trousers are tucked into his high sea 
boots.

Bill Bolton Captain Jonathan’s nephew, is a tall, good-looking boy; quick and 
observant, amiable, and likable. He is neatly dressed – dark-brown trousers 
and a sweater with a yellow scarf tucked into the neck. He is bare-headed.


 Jonah Greenfield . He is the town’s fat boy Although placid and genial, and 
always ready to forgive a slight, he is quick-witted and alert to the 
situations as they arise. He wears a jersey tucked into his trousers, 
displaying on top a pair of shabby braces, and on his head a toque with a 
tassel.

Theresa and Monica Donovan: are two dark-haired Irish colleens. They are 
dressed in convent-style uniform; dark blue or black, with matching stockings. 
They have led a very sheltered life and are hence, very demure and obedient, 
but also really quite sweet. They wear little religious amulets around their 
necks.

Maggie McGie: sister to Pat, is a lively little tow-headed girl, small for her 
age. She is very mischievous and quick witted. She wears a flamingo-red sweater 
of the cardigan type- out at the elbows, and usually buttoned up incorrectly.

 Mary Moncton from the left, carrying a (mending bag and a) lunch pail for 
Jonah for the ‘levenses. She is an amiable, brown-haired girl – quite 
domestic, and old for her age. She wears a rather dark dress, full-skirted, and 
long-sleeved, over which is an apron. She keeps some darning in her apron 
pocket, which she takes out and works on now and then.

Dorothea Featherstone and Ruth Manly hand in hand from the left (right). They 
are kindred teenage spirits – much given to assiduous gossip, and the reading 
of True Romance and such-like fiction. Dorothea is a beautiful, romantic, 
brown-haired girl – a little plump in a pleasant feminine way. She wears an 
old green velveteen rain coat with a faded floral head scarf with a long 
fringe, worn on the back of the head to artfully display her dark curls. Ruth 
is a slender, graceful girl, wearing her hair in a boyish bob. She wears a 
plaid skirt and a pullover. They enter talking and giggling to each other- 
their confidences ending in a little shriek of laughter.

Chloe Patterson, from the village. She is a smallish fair-haired girl, quite 
sweet and delicate, but with a surprising firmness of principle. She wears a 
print dress and an apron, in the pocket of which she carries some embroidery. 
She enters la-laing the melody of the witching song, “Roses, daisies,” etc.

Julian Williams: bursts onto the scene from the right (left) entrance. He is an 
excitable boy, imaginative, with black hair and brown eyes popping with 
excitement. He wears a striped jersey under his slicker. A long knitted scarf 
is bundled around his neck in an untidy fashion.

Biddy McCroom: appears on the scene from the path leading to Sheila’s Haven. 
She is an elderly woman of Irish extraction, apple cheeked, and with wild black 
hair flecked with grey escaping from under her fringed Connemara shawl. She 
carries a basket covered with white cloth on her left arm. As she enters, she 
catches Julian’s last words and interjects…

